Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Poll Shocks as a Risk: Election Polls, Regulatory Environments, and Firm Decisions

55 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021 Last revised: 27 Oct 2022

Martin Viehweger

LMU Munich School of Management

Date Written: October 26, 2022

Abstract

Volatile regulatory environments are a threat to firms, requiring adjustments to make firms less prone to this risk. Therefore, firms have to understand how the regulatory environment will evolve. This study suggests election polls as an information system about firms’ regulatory environment. As election polls reveal governments’ reelection probabilities, election polls incentivize governments to keep or change regulations and express the perceived legitimacy of current regulations. The results show that decreasing election poll results for the government relate to reduced firm investments in employees and long-term assets. The findings further suggest that firms adjust their investments to be less prone to unpredictable regulatory changes resulting from decreasing election poll results. Additionally, the results show that decreasing election poll results relate to increasing tax avoidance, suggesting that firms address the lower perceived legitimacy of current regulations by reducing compliance with those. The results suggest that election polls influence firm decisions through both the incentive for the government to change regulations and the perceived legitimacy of current regulations. Therefore, election polls are a valid indicator of the predictability and stability of firms’ regulatory environment.

Keywords: Political Economy, Political Uncertainty, Election Polls

JEL Classification: C12, C23, C36, L20, M12, M48

Suggested Citation:

Viehweger, Martin, Poll Shocks as a Risk: Election Polls, Regulatory Environments, and Firm Decisions (October 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3979018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
J Alm , E Kirchler , S Muehlbacher
Combining Psychology and Economics in the Analysis of Compliance: From Enforcement to Cooperation
Economic Analysis and Policy , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 133 - 151 Posted: 2012
B Amos , M P Mcdonald , R Watkins
When boundaries collide constructing a national database of demographic and voting statistics
Public Opinion Quarterly , volume 81 , issue S1 , p. 385 - 400 Posted: 2017
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrative Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
808
RANK
735,901
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies