Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A META-ANALYSIS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND FIRM PERFORMANCE

Journal of Governance and Regulation / Volume 9, Issue 1, 2020

19 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Binh Dao

Hanoi University - Faculty of Management and Tourism

Date Written: December 7, 2021

Abstract

This research provides a systematic picture on the topic of “How corporate governance influences on firm performance?” through the application of meta-analysis on over 251 studies covering 24,867 businesses of 37 distinguished published papers. Using meta-analysis, by proceeding HOMA procedure, it is statistically evidenced that better corporate governance index and more board independence significantly enhance firm performance. By contrast, business’ financial value would be harmed as raise management shares proportion. Not only providing a general relationship
direction, the paper also contributes an insight of potential sources of heterogeneity among collected samples as endogeneity problems; and selection of financial performance base. Moreover, significant changes through the sampling period are investigated in the connection of business’ worth and board size, board independence (declining trend); state ownership and institutional ownership (rising tendency).


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Meta-Analysis, HOMA Procedures, MARA Procedures

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Thi Thanh Binh, A META-ANALYSIS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND FIRM PERFORMANCE (December 7, 2021). Journal of Governance and Regulation / Volume 9, Issue 1, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Aggarwal , J W Goodell
Does Asia really have poorer governance? Evidence from international variations in self-dealing transparency. Handbook of Asian finance: Financial markets and sovereign wealth funds , p. 251 - 270 Posted: 2014
E Ahn , H Kang
Introduction to systematic review and meta-analysis
Korean Journal of Anesthesiology , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 112 Posted: 2018
D G Ancona , P S Goodman , B S Lawrence , M L Tushman
Time: A new research lens , volume 26 , p. 645 - 663 Posted: 2001
M Aoki
Information, Corporate Governance and Institutional Diversity: Competitiveness in Japan, the USA, and the Transitional Economies Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
651
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,521
RANK
93,476
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies