Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Debt Contracting and Managerial Agency

33 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022 Last revised: 8 Mar 2022

Björn Imbierowicz

Deutsche Bundesbank - Research Centre

Daniel Streitz

Halle Institute for Economic Research

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 3, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes how lenders address managerial agency problems in loan contracts using sweep covenants. Sweeps require a (partial) prepayment when triggered and are included in many contracts. Exploiting exogenous reductions in analyst coverage due to brokerage house mergers and closures, we find that increased borrower opacity significantly increases sweep use. The effect is strongest for borrowers with higher levels of managerial entrenchment and if lenders hold both debt and equity in the firm. Overall, our results suggest that lenders implement sweep covenants to mitigate managerial agency problems by limiting contingencies of wealth expropriation.

Keywords: agency problems, covenant, loan contract, sweep provision

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Imbierowicz, Björn and Streitz, Daniel, Financial Debt Contracting and Managerial Agency (February 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3980463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3980463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
J Begley , G A Feltham
An empirical examination of the relation between debt contracts and management incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 27 , p. 229 - 259 Posted: 1999
O J Blanchard , F Lopez-De-Silanes , A Shleifer
What do firms do with cash windfalls?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 36 , p. 337 - 360 Posted: 1994
M Bradley , M R Roberts
The structure and pricing of corporate debt covenants , volume 5 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
911
RANK
427,290
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies