Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of MiFID II on Voluntary Disclosure

Management Science, forthcoming.


47 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 28 Jan 2025

Chongho Kim

Seoul National University

Jihwon Park

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Edward Sul

George Washington University

Date Written: June 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of MiFID II’s controversial unbundling provision on corporate voluntary disclosure. While prior research has largely focused on changes in sell-side research post-MiFID II, changes in voluntary disclosure and their effects on the information environment are less known. We find that European Union (EU) firms significantly increase the propensity and frequency of management earnings guidance issuance after MiFID II enactment. This effect is more pronounced among firms experiencing a decline in the quantity of sell-side research or a reduction in the consumption and dissemination of analyst reports and is more muted among firms witnessing improvements in research quality. Furthermore, we find that post-MiFID earnings guidance by EU firms becomes more thorough and elicits stronger market reactions. Moreover, we demonstrate that the increased guidance effectively alleviates the negative liquidity effects of MiFID II. Collectively, we contribute to the ongoing debate on the efficacy of MiFID II’s unbundling provision by providing evidence that voluntary disclosure plays a key role in mitigating the unintended net negative consequences on the information environment following the regulation.

Keywords: MiFID II, unbundling provision, analysts, disclosure, earnings guidance

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Chongho and Park, Jihwon and Sul, Edward, The Effects of MiFID II on Voluntary Disclosure (June 15, 2024). Management Science, forthcoming.
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3980230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3980230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
D Bazhutov , A Betzer , F Brochet , M Doumet , P Limbach
The supply and effectiveness of investor relations in insider-vs. outsider-oriented markets
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 660 - 683 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,527
RANK
242,713
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies