Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers and Acquisitions and the Aggregate Markup

26 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021

Linyi Cao

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Lijun Zhu

Peking University

Abstract

In the U.S., the measured markup has been increasing since the 1980s. This paper analyzes the impact of the mergers and acquisitions (M&As) market on aggregate markup. We first provide empirical evidence that a firm's markup—measured as the difference between its price and marginal cost—increases after an M&A transaction. We then propose a dynamic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms and endogenous M&As to explore the aggregate implications of M&As under different antitrust policy regimes. In this model, firms are endowed with a productivity, and more productive firms have a larger size and a higher markup. An M&A is modeled as a search and matching process. The successful purchase of other firms increasesthe size of the acquirer, while also increasing its markup. Under our calibration, the increasing M&A market due to more lenient antitrust policies accounts for about 73% of the 5 percentage-point increase in aggregate markup from 1981-85 to 2011-15.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Antitrust Policy, Markup

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Linyi and Zhu, Lijun, Mergers and Acquisitions and the Aggregate Markup. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3980046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3980046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
David Autor , David Dorn , Lawrence F Katz , Christina Patterson , John Van Reenen
The Fall of Labor Share and The Rise of Superstar Firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
Simchar Barkai
Declining Labor and Capital Shares
Journal of Finance , issue 5 , p. 2421 - 2463 Posted: 2020
Sanjai Bhagata , Ming Dongb , David Hirshleiferc , Robert Noahd
Do tender offers create value? New methods and evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , p. 3 - 60 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
885
RANK
340,852
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies