Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Directors Learn From Environmental Shareholder Engagements

48 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2022 Last revised: 27 Jul 2022

Rob Bauer

Maastricht University; European Centre for Corporate Engagement (ECCE)

Jeroen Derwall

Maastricht University; Maastricht University - Department of Finance; Utrecht University - School of Economics

Colin Tissen

Maastricht University

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether corporate directors learn from environmental engagements by studying the success and implementation of environmental shareholder proposals. We deem a proposal successful when the proposal sponsor withdrew it after negotiating with the target firm. Our results indicate that environmental proposals targeting firms at which directors have a stronger environmental knowledge base are more likely to be withdrawn. Next, using a difference-in-difference estimation with a matched control group, we show that the withdrawal of an environmental shareholder proposal leads to an improvement in the environmental performance of targeted firms. Most importantly, we find that a proposal withdrawal leads to an 7.9% increase in the environmental performance of non-targeted firms that are connected to the target firm through overlapping directorships. Since the engagement at the target firm is exogenous to the connected firm, we causally show that directors learn from engagements. Our results imply that environmental shareholder engagements improve corporate directors’ attention to and knowledge of environmental issues and that this improvement has effects on the firms they serve.

Keywords: board of directors, corporate environmental performance, shareholder engagement

JEL Classification: G34, M14, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Rob and Derwall, Jeroen and Derwall, Jeroen and Tissen, Colin, Corporate Directors Learn From Environmental Shareholder Engagements (January 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
P Akey , I Appel
Environmental externalities of activism Posted: 2020
Amazon
Form DEF 14A Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,398
RANK
125,072
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies