Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Share Pledging Impair Stakeholder Welfare? Evidence Based on Corporate Social Responsibility

54 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2021

Chengcheng Li

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Xiaoqiong Wang

Indiana University Kokomo

Feifei Zhu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This paper investigates whether and how share pledging by controlling shareholders affects stakeholder wealth using Chinese listed firms from 2007 to 2018. Employing corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a proxy for stakeholder welfare, we find that share pledging impedes a firm’s overall CSR, reduces activities associated with CSR strength scores, as well as dimensions related to the benefits of primary stakeholders. We further show that both the potential risks of being replaced and the actual margin call risks faced by controlling shareholders aggravate the negative relation between pledging and CSR, while the external monitoring and financial constraint channels do not seem to explain the negative relation. The evidence suggests that the controlling shareholders’ management of pledging risks is the underlying mechanism through which pledging impedes CSR and extracts benefits from stakeholders.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Share Pledging, Margin Call, Stakeholder Welfare, Control Rights

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chengcheng and Wang, Xiaoqiong and Zhu, Feifei, Does Share Pledging Impair Stakeholder Welfare? Evidence Based on Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "wall street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider share-pledging and equity risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 58 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the united states
Journal of Financial economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
683
RANK
609,870
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies