Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Internal Audit Function Quality: Evidence from Investment Strategies

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Vol 39 (2): 540-567

28 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021 Last revised: 27 Jan 2022

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

SUSAN PARKER

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 18, 2022

Abstract

This article examines the relation between internal audit function (IAF) quality and investment efficiency, a recurring value-added corporate activity critical to firm survival and profitability. We argue that an IAF, unlike other information intermediaries, is uniquely positioned to have access to firm-specific, private information—particularly related to localized, firm-specific risks. If a more competent IAF incrementally improves the information that is generated and communicated to management (while not participating directly in decision-making), we should observe more productive capital investment decisions from firms with higher quality IAFs relative to firms with lower quality IAFs. Through this enhanced information channel, we find that IAF quality is associated with investment efficiency. This result holds for both under- and overinvestment, although not in tests of all subsamples. We also document that this effect is more pronounced for firms with more complexity and for firms with greater investment opportunities. Our evidence indicates that IAF quality provides measurable and economically meaningful value to an organization.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Quality, Investment Efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Buslepp, William L. and PARKER, SUSAN, The Real Effects of Internal Audit Function Quality: Evidence from Investment Strategies (January 18, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Vol 39 (2): 540-567, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3982781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Abbott
The IAF is also appraised on a timelier basis of changes in information systems and/or control processes Posted: 2012
Peterson (2012) documents a positive association between revenue recognition complexity and the probability of future revenue restatements, consistent with complexity increasing the difficulty of forecasting
While it would be desirable to incorporate elements related to IAF objectivity or independence as well as competence, in our time period we find very little variation in previously used measures. For example, the chief audit executive has a reporting line to the audit committee in 94% of firms and the IAF time spent in auditor assistance is only 4% budgeted hours (median of 1%)
BCDL includes a second macroeconomic variable: the rate on the 10-year treasury note. We find the rate on the 10-year treasury note is strongly correlated with our year fixed effects (variance inflation factor , volume 12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,028
RANK
237,535
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies