Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Talk Less, Learn More: Strategic Disclosure in Response to Managerial Learning from the Options Market

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 59, Issue 5

Posted: 15 Dec 2021

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Xin Yang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine how options trading affects voluntary corporate disclosure, so that we can shed light on whether managers’ potential learning from the options market induces them to withhold disclosure. We find that options trading reduces the likelihood and frequency of management earnings forecasts, suggesting that firms that have active options trading on their stock make fewer voluntary disclosures. This finding is in accordance with the theoretical prediction that managers strategically reduce disclosure to avoid crowding out informed trading, which can give them informative feedback for their decision making. In support of the managerial learning channel, we document a real effect of reduced disclosure: When managers disclose less, options trading has a stronger positive effect on firm investment efficiency. The more pronounced effect of options trading on management earnings forecasts when the need for managerial learning is higher further supports the learning channel.

Keywords: options trading; information feedback; managerial learning; management earnings forecasts; voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Ng, Jeffrey and Yang, Xin, Talk Less, Learn More: Strategic Disclosure in Response to Managerial Learning from the Options Market (December 1, 2021). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 59, Issue 5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3982576
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies