Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Liability and Climate Risk: White Paper on Hong Kong

26 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2022

Ernest Lim

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 10, 2021

Abstract

It is well-established that climate-related risks pose a material threat to the financial performance of companies and the authorities in Hong Kong have issued or proposed a variety of measures to address these risks. Under Hong Kong law, directors are required to consider and address these risks. This is because directors are required to act bona fide in the best interests of the company. Applying this duty to the climate context, directors are required to monitor and manage the risks arising from climate change as the failure to do so will have an adverse impact on the business and operations of the company, and in turn, the financial interests of shareholders. Directors are also required to exercise reasonable care, skill and diligence in carrying out their functions. Applying this duty to the climate context, they are required to set up effective internal risk management systems, perform adequate due diligence, exercise supervision over those to whom they have delegated the monitoring and management of climate-related risks, ensure there is proper disclosure (of asset impairment and fair valuation) in the financial statements, and refrain from making greenwashing statements. Consistent with such common law and statutory obligations are those imposed by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange listing rules which require boards to bear overall responsibility for issuers’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy and reporting, the obligations of which include but are not limited to detailed and granular disclosure of issuers’ policies and issuers’ compliance with regulations on carbon emissions.

Should directors be in breach of their duties under the common law or statutory law, the board may bring an action against those directors. The director may also be removed by shareholders by an ordinary resolution. If the board decides not to take action against that director, a minority shareholder can bring a derivative action on behalf of the company or may apply to the court for an unfair prejudice remedy. In addition to private enforcement by shareholders, there is public enforcement where the Securities and Futures Commission can apply to the court for an order if it finds that the company’s business or affairs have been conducted in a manner resulting in any of its members not having been given all the information with respect to its business or affairs that the member might reasonably expect; or unfairly prejudicial to any of its members.

Keywords: board of directors, climate change, corporate governance, sustainability, ESG

JEL Classification: K22, K32

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Ernest, Directors’ Liability and Climate Risk: White Paper on Hong Kong (December 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3983447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Hemavathi Soma Shekhar , Vidhi Madaan Chadda
Directors’ duty towards climate risk mitigation: A critical appraisal of the legal framework and emerging trends
Corporate Law and Governance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 64 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Akshaya Kamalnath , Umakanth Varottil
A Disclosure-Based Approach to Regulating AI in Corporate Governance
NUS Law Working Paper No. 2022/001 · 22 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 1,016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
240,099
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies