Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finding the right fit: Value creation in activism through human capital

50 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021

Attila Balogh

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 12, 2021

Abstract

I provide evidence that activist investors create value through the efficient reallocation of human capital by nominating directors at the firms they target. Stock returns are significantly higher at targeted firms when a new director is appointed and takes on a monitoring role to improve governance. Examining director biographies extracted from proxy filings, I show that effective activists match directors to firms that bring new skills and additional prior experience to the board. Consistent with directors' monitoring role and the reduction of agency problems, firms with new directors are more likely to replace the CEO and curb investment levels. Whereas prior research claims that value creation in activism is limited to takeovers, this paper shows that the human capital of directors also predicts returns for firms that are not acquired. Instrumental variables tests that exploit exogenous variation in director appointment rates indicate that the observed relationship is causal.

Keywords: Human Capital, Director labor market, Shareholder activism

JEL Classification: G34, J24

Suggested Citation:

Balogh, Attila, Finding the right fit: Value creation in activism through human capital (December 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3983251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A C Akyol , W F Lim , P Verwijmeren
Governance Characteristics and the Market Reaction to the SEC's Proxy Access Rule
International Review of Finance , volume 12 , p. 175 - 195 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
RANK
254,445
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies