Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Disclose Privately? Shareholder Litigation Risk and Managers' Private Disclosure of Bad News

55 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 22 Aug 2025

Sandra G. Schafhäutle

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: August 13, 2021

Abstract

Although the disclosure literature largely focuses on managers' public disclosure decisions, managers can also disclose information privately to select market participants. By developing and validating a proxy that captures private bad news disclosure to sell-side analysts, I investigate a force long posited to influence managers' incentives to engage in private disclosure: shareholder litigation risk. Exploiting plausibly exogenous changes in shareholder litigation risk based on judge ideology, I find managers' propensity to communicate bad news privately is positively correlated with shareholder litigation risk. This effect is pronounced when private disclosure is relatively beneficial (low earnings persistence, high competition) and when managers issue less informative public disclosures (no earnings guidance, short conference calls). Consistent with private disclosure being an effective strategy to indirectly adjust market prices and thereby manage the risk of shareholder litigation, I find that private disclosure reduces the frequency of large and sudden stock price drops.

Keywords: Litigation risk, private disclosure, private communication, sell-side analysts

JEL Classification: D82, G18, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schafhäutle, Sandra G., Why Disclose Privately? Shareholder Litigation Risk and Managers' Private Disclosure of Bad News (August 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3983504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate Managers' Earnings Forecasts and Symmetrical Adjustments of Market Expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
A Ali , M T Durney , J Fisch
Managers' private communications with analysts: The effect of SEC v Posted: 2023
K D Allee , B J Bushee , T J Kleppe , A T Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC's Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1235 - 1291 Posted: 2022
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The Effect of Legal Environment on Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts Issued in U.S. and Canadian Markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,612
RANK
101,005
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies