Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Baby in the Bathwater: Why Proposals to Abolish Corporate Personhood Are Misguided

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021

David Gindis

University of Warwick - Warwick Law School

Abraham Singer

University of Toronto

Date Written: December 9, 2021

Abstract

The fear that business corporations have claimed unwarranted constitutional protections which have entrenched corporate power has produced a broad social movement demanding that constitutional rights be restricted to human beings and corporate personhood be abolished. We develop a critique of these proposals organized around the three salient rationales we identify in the accompanying narrative, which we argue reflect a narrow focus on large business corporations, a misunderstanding of the legal concept of personhood, and a failure to distinguish different kinds of constitutional rights and the reasons for assigning them. Corporate personhood and corporate constitutional rights are not problematic per se once these notions are decoupled from biological, metaphysical or moral considerations. The real challenge is that we need a principled way of thinking about the priority of human over corporate persons which does not reduce the efficacy of corporate institutions or harm liberal democracies.

Keywords: Corporate abolitionism, corporate personhood, corporate rights, liberal democracy, pragmatism

Suggested Citation:

Gindis, David and Singer, Abraham, The Corporate Baby in the Bathwater: Why Proposals to Abolish Corporate Personhood Are Misguided (December 9, 2021). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3983013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
M Alzola
Corporate Dystopia: The Ethics of Corporate Political Spending
Business and Society , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 388 - 426 Posted: 2013
Written testimony. In Taking Back Our Democracy: Responding to Citizens United and the Rise of Super PACS: Hearings before the Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, US Senate, 112th Congress , p. 111 - 119 Posted: 2012-07-24
A Arnold
The Folklore of Capitalism Posted: 1937
J M Berry , C Wilcox
Interest Group Society Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
277,353
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies