Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theories of Corporate Disclosure: A Literature Review

Al Amosh, H., & Khatib, S. F. (2022). Theories of Corporate Disclosure: A Literature Review. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review.‏

Posted: 8 Feb 2022

Hamzeh Al Amosh

Ministry of Education and Higher Education Qatar

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: December 12, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to provide an up-to-date look at the reality of the theories used in disclosure literature, including stakeholder theory, legitimacy theory, agency theory, signaling theory, institutional theory, this study relies on both deductive and inductive approaches to reviewing a group of disclosure literature worldwide and highlighting the theoretical frameworks used. The results showed that the most comprehensive theory is the stakeholders' theory, as researchers have adopted it in more than one field of disclosure. The legitimacy theory followed them. Both theories, however, have failed to be consistently supported in the prior studies as it is not expected that companies only want to satisfy stakeholders through disclosure (Al Amosh and Khtaib, 2021), and legitimizing activities (Pistoni et al., 2018). but due to the information asymmetry, firms' preferences to disclose more information would be different based on their characteristics. Therefore, the theoretical lens of the disclosure literature should be expanded to include multiple theoretical grounds that may lead to a better understanding of the phenomenon of corporate disclosure. This paper contributes to shedding light on the reality of researchers' interpretation of the detection motives and defining the theoretical perspectives used in preliminary theoretical analysis. Based on the relevant literature of corporate information disclosure, this paper constructs a theoretical framework to integrate the disclosure theory and gives a comprehensive theoretical explanation.

Keywords: Corporate governance and reporting, Accounting and disclosure, Corporate social responsibility, Integrated reporting

JEL Classification: M48, M40, G38

Suggested Citation:

Al Amosh, Hamzeh and Khatib, Saleh F. A., Theories of Corporate Disclosure: A Literature Review (December 12, 2021). Al Amosh, H., & Khatib, S. F. (2022). Theories of Corporate Disclosure: A Literature Review. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review.‏, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983529
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies