Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Search of a Unicorn: Dynamic Agency with Endogenous Investment Opportunities

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021 Last revised: 13 Feb 2024

Felix Zhiyu Feng

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Robin Yifan Luo

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

We study the optimal dynamic contract that provides incentives for an agent (e.g., SPAC sponsor, VC general partner, CTO) to exploit investment opportunities/targets that arrive randomly over time via a costly search process. The agent is privy to the arrival as well as to the quality of the target and can take advantage of this for rent extraction during the search process and the ensuing production. The optimal contract provides the agent with incentives for timely and truthful reporting via a time-varying threshold for investment and an internal charge for the time spent on search. In the equilibrium, as time elapses, the charge becomes progressively higher while the investment threshold is progressively lower, resulting in overinvestment at a time-varying degree. Our model generates empirically testable predictions regarding investments (such as M\&As, hedge fund activism, VC investing, SPACs, and internal innovations), linking the degree of overinvestment to observable firm and industry characteristics.

Keywords: dynamic agency, endogeneous search, project selection, overinvestment

JEL Classification: G31, D82, D83, D86, M11

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Felix and Luo, Robin Yifan and Michaeli, Beatrice, In Search of a Unicorn: Dynamic Agency with Endogenous Investment Opportunities (January 31, 2024). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3983591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3983591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource rationing and organizational slack in a twoperiod model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
A Arya , J C Fellingham , R A Young
Contract-based motivation for keeping records of a manager's reporting and budgeting history
Management Science , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 484 - 495 Posted: 1994
E Azarmsa , L Y Liu , S Noh
How does internal communication technology affect internal information: Theory and evidence Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,050
RANK
179,657
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies