Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Programming of corporate social responsibility development of an enterprise

Problems and prospects of development of the road transport complex: financing, management, innovation, quality, safety – integrated approach. Kharkiv: РС ТЕСHNOLOGY СЕNTЕR, 135-151. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/978-617-7319-45-9.ch9

17 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

TECHNOLOGY CENTER PC

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Nadiia Bocharova

Kharkiv National Automobile and Highway University

Iaroslava Levchenko

Kharkiv National Automobile and Highway University

Kateryna Dokunina

Kharkiv National University of Construction Engineering and Architecture

Anzhela Popova

Kharkiv National Automobile and Highway University

Oleg Diegtiar

State Higher Educational Institution “Vasyl Stefanyk Precarpathian National University”

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

Speaking about the essence of the concept of «corporate social responsibility» (CSR), we mean the active social position of a company, which consists in the harmonious coexistence of stakeholders, constant dialogue with society, business participation in addressing pressing social issues. The essence of the concept of CSR is to take into account the interests of society, responsibility for an impact of an enterprise on consumers, employees, local communities and the environment in all aspects of its activities. Social dialogue and CSR is the basis of innovative development of an enterprise. To solve the problem of implementing CSR in the Ukrainian realities, the existing methods for elaborating a program for the development of CSR in the activities of road management and road transport have been studied. The program of CSR development at the internal and external levels of implementation is offered taking into account features of various groups of stakeholders. The main directions of introduction of corporate social responsibility are separated. A number of measures are proposed for each group of stakeholders in each direction of CSR in enterprises of road management and road transport. This will increase the psychological climate of the team, improve the health of staff and well-being, which will increase the overall efficiency of road and road transport companies. The radar method is used to calculate the integrated indicator. A two-dimensional matrix of CSR level estimation is given. A method of integrated assessment of the level of CSR based on a system of partial indicators, determined by a stakeholder survey, is proposed. The proposed method has been tested at the enterprise «VITAL». According to the results of calculations, the level of CSR at the enterprise is assessed as a high level of development of corporate social responsibility. The implementation of the corporate social esponsibility development program will allow road management and road transport companies to improve their business reputation and generally promote the country’s business development.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, road management and road transport enterprises, CSR deve­lopment program, integrated assessment, environmental aspect

Suggested Citation:

PC, TECHNOLOGY CENTER and Bocharova, Nadiia and Levchenko, Iaroslava and Dokunina, Kateryna and Popova, Anzhela and Diegtiar, Oleg, Programming of corporate social responsibility development of an enterprise (November 30, 2021). Problems and prospects of development of the road transport complex: financing, management, innovation, quality, safety – integrated approach. Kharkiv: РС ТЕСHNOLOGY СЕNTЕR, 135-151. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/978-617-7319-45-9.ch9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Grinko , T Bochulia , P Grynko , I Yasinetska , I Levchenko
Formation of the con cept of intellectualization information provision for managing an enterprise
EasternEuropean Journal of Enterprise Technologies , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 4 - 14 Posted: 2017
B S Bataeva
Strategicheskie prioritety sotsialnoekonomicheskogo razvitiia Rossii i kontseptsiia korporativnoi sotsialnoi otvetstvennosti Posted: 2010
O S Bilan
Doslidzhennia osoblyvostei formuvannia prohramy korporatyvnoi sotsial noi vidpovidalnosti
Ekonomika ta upravlinnia pidpryiemstvamy , volume 1 , issue 22 , p. 49 - 52 Posted: 2017
Blagov , E Iu
Korporativnaia sotsialnaia otvetstvennost i biznes obrazovanie
Biznes obrazovanie , volume 8 , p. 60 - 65 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies