Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Earnings Management and Income Smoothing using Commission and Fee Income: A European Context

International Journal of Managerial Finance, 13(4), 419-439.

35 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

We investigate whether European banks use commission and fee income to smooth reported earnings or to persistently increase reported earnings as an income-increasing earnings management strategy. We find that European banks use commission and fee income to smooth reported earnings and this behaviour is pronounced among non-too-big-to-fail European banks compared to too-big-to-fail European banks. We also find a positive and significant correlation between interest income and noninterest income (commission and fee income) indicating increased systematic risk due to reduced diversification benefits. We also find that the commission and fee income of non-too-big-to-fail banks is procyclical with fluctuating economic conditions but not for too-big-to-fail banks. Also, we find evidence for income-increasing earnings management (i) in the post-crisis period, (ii) for larger European banks (iii) and when banks have higher ex-post interest income, implying that the propensity to engage in income-increasing earnings management significantly depend on bank size and ex-post interest margin considerations. The findings have policy implications.

Keywords: Europe, Banks, Diversification, Earnings Management, Non-interest income, Commission and Fee Income, Income smoothing, Interest Margin, Systematic risk, Revenue.

JEL Classification: G21, G28, L25.

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Earnings Management and Income Smoothing using Commission and Fee Income: A European Context (2017). International Journal of Managerial Finance, 13(4), 419-439., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
M M Ahamed
Asset quality, non-interest income, and bank profitability: Evidence from Indian banks
Economic Modelling , volume 63 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Re-examination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signalling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
L Angbazo
Commercial bank net interest margins, default risk, interest-rate risk, and offbalance sheet banking
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 87 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
568,026
4 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies