Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Deeper Look at the Return on Purpose: Before and During a Crisis

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 2021). Volume 33. Number 2.

19 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Gregory V. Milano

Fortuna Advisors LLC

Riley Whately

Fortuna Advisors LLC

Brian Tomlinson
Alexa Yiğit

CECP

Date Written: August 16, 2021

Abstract

There has been much debate about the relationship between a company’s pursuit of purpose and the value it creates for both stakeholders and shareholders. Recent studies have shown broad company statements of purpose may create a false façade that is unsupported by changes to company governance or actions. However, purpose and stakeholder value continue to gain prominence in the cultural conversation, and other studies show purpose has a strong relationship to consumer preference and company performance. In this paper, we greatly expand on our previously published research that proposes a new method for linking objective measures of purpose to financial, valuation and value creation performance. Rather than measuring what a company says about purpose, we instead measure the impact a company creates with consumers across specific attributes of brand purpose. We find that brands scoring highly on these measures of purpose outperformed low-scoring brands in the three years prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. We further show high purpose brands recovered faster and more fully during the pandemic in 2020, leading to a widening performance gap to low purpose brands. We validated these findings by running a series of regression models that showed a statistically significant relationship between purpose and valuation multiples, while accounting for variation in growth, profitability, asset intensity, leverage and sector effects in the sample population. We contribute to the literature by shifting focus from statements of purpose to measurable and investable attributes that show a strong relationship to drivers of value for both stakeholders and shareholders.

Keywords: Purpose, Corporate Purpose, Brand Purpose, Stakeholder Value, Shareholder Value, Performance Measurement

Suggested Citation:

Milano, Gregory Vincent and Whately, Riley and Tomlinson, Brian and Yiğit, Alexa, A Deeper Look at the Return on Purpose: Before and During a Crisis (August 16, 2021). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (Spring 2021). Volume 33. Number 2., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies