Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Different Impact of Top Executives’ Turnover on Healthy and Restructured Companies

International Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 17, No. 1; 2022

10 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2022

Carla Morrone

University of Naples Parthenope

Alberto Tron

University of Milan

Federico Colantoni

SDA Bocconi

Salvatore Ferri

University of Naples Parthenope

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to investigate if top executives’ turnover affects the performance of a company and if it differently impacts the performances of a healthy and a restructured company. In order to investigate the impact of the renewal of both members of the board of directors and CEO impacts on company profitability, we performed a quantitative analysis based on a sample of 144 Italian companies using a logit model. The findings show that management changes influence the performance of a company. However, the results show a different impact for healthy and restructured companies. The renewal of the board of directors negatively affects the performances of a healthy company while influences positively the probability of a future increase in performances for restructured companies, suggesting useful implications for scholars and practitioners. This analysis confirms that the renewal of top executives can affect the probability of an increase of company performances, especially for distressed firms, contributing to existing literature which is still limited and focused only on few countries.

Keywords: corporate governance, crisis, performances, restructuring, turnaround

JEL Classification: G17, G32, G33, G34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Morrone, Carla and Tron, Alberto and Colantoni, Federico and Ferri, Salvatore, The Different Impact of Top Executives’ Turnover on Healthy and Restructured Companies (December 15, 2021). International Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 17, No. 1; 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M A Abebe , C Tangpong
Founder-CEOs and corporate turnaround among declining firms. Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 26 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Aggressive Boards and CEO Turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 437 - 486 Posted: 2021
L Agostini , A Nosella
Enhancing radical innovation performance through intellectual capital components
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 789 - 806 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
759,678
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies