Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Study on the Overall Performance of Merged Public Sector Banks and Private Sector Banks using CAMEL Model

12 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

Niyaz Panakaje

Yenepoya (Deemed to be University)

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: The main motive of this research was to assess the overall functioning of public sector banks before merger and after the merger. At the same time effective comparison is been undertaken between public and private sector banks. One of the most crucial practices of evaluating the performance of bank involves critical examination of account statements concerning annual report. Major parameters for evaluating the Banks’s performance include assessment of adequate capital, quality of assets, ability of management to control the risk, earning capacity and liquid adequacy to meet the monetary obligations by the banks. Impact of merger on the bank’s performance are measured and compared to judge its effectiveness. Methodology: Quarterly published financial statements from 2019-20 to 2020-21 of selected banks are used for the analysis. Analysis is based on CAMEL model where the performance is rated on a scale of 1 to 5 on the basis of rating analysis. This study applied t-test as inferential statistics to draw a conclusion based on a comparative analysis.

Findings: The study revealed there is significant difference in the performance of selected merged public sector banks and private banks and it was found that even after the merger of public sector banks it is not able to strive against private sector banks in their overall performance.

Originality: It may be helpful to the government in making the merger an effective strategy by changing its policies and practices in consolidating the banks. Banking sectors are the major contributor to country’s GDP hence the result of this study can be utilized to improve both public and private sector banks.

Utilitarian Implication: This study will be valuable and pragmatic to the various stakeholders like investors, banking sectors, government, employees, customers, management and society as a whole to maintain their stake in these banks. Paper Type: Analytical Research

Keywords: Bank Performance, CAMEL Model, Merger, Public Sector Banks, Private Sector Bank, Effectiveness.

Keywords: Bank Performance, CAMEL Model, Merger, Public Sector Banks, Private Sector Bank, Effectiveness

Suggested Citation:

Panakaje, Niyaz, Comparative Study on the Overall Performance of Merged Public Sector Banks and Private Sector Banks using CAMEL Model (December 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3985908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J S Mandray , R Kamal
Mergers of Public sector Undertaking Banks in India
International Journal of Creative Research Thoughts (IJCRT) , volume 8 , issue 7 , p. 4169 - 4172 Posted: 2020
Elizabeth M Samuel
Comparative Performance Evaluation of Selected Commercial Banks in India using CAMELS Rating Model
International Journal of Global Sustainability , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 38 Posted: 2018
S Kavitha
A study on the consolidation and merger of PSB's in India: Issues and Challenges-with special reference to PNB, OBC, and United Bank. The International journal of analytical and experimental modal analysis , volume 12 , p. 2300 - 2307 Posted: 2020
P K Aspal , S Dhawan
Camels rating model for evaluating financial performance of banking sector: A theoretical perspective
International Journal of System Modeling and Simulation , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 10 - 15 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
196,357
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies