Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Arbitrage on Narrative Steroids: The Case of SPACs

40 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

Philippe Maupas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

We review the historical emergence, recent boom, and functioning of Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs). SPACs are blank-check companies, raising money from investors to complete an acquisition (generally a private firm) within a limited period of time (generally two years). First, we describe the main features of SPACs and the considerable growth of such transactions, mostly in the US. Second, we examine the academic literature that has explored the financial performance of these investment vehicles. The overwhelming evidence from academic studies (that have mostly focused on US SPACs) indicates that these investment vehicles, while allowing their sponsors to earn substantial gains, did not on average create value for shareholders with a long-term horizon, that is investors that kept their shares after the merger with a target firm (the de-SPAC). Several factors can explain this underperformance: the dilutive nature of SPACs for investors, deferred payments to the underwriters only if a target is found, or the misalignment of incentives between sponsors and investors, the former receiving a large equity compensation only if the SPAC acquires or merges with a target firm. On average, SPACs have identified low quality target firms and underperformed following the de-SPAC. Third, drawing on Shiller’s work on narrative economics, we discuss the role played by another, perhaps underestimated factor, that is, the promotional narratives disseminated by SPACs in explaining their growth. Historically, traditional IPOs faced stricter disclosure regulations than SPACs, e.g., regarding forward-looking statements or the quantity of information. We provide an illustrative case study of disclosure by focusing on a US SPAC transaction in the online education area (i.e., Nerdy). Using content analysis, we find evidence consistent with promotional investment narratives in documents intended to inform potential investors. SPACs’ sponsors have engaged in this regulatory arbitrage regarding disclosures. Fourth, we examine the regulatory environments and prominent cases in the US and in Europe. After reviewing the US, we provide examples of SPACs in four major European market venues: Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London, and Paris. We show that the regulations differ significantly across European markets, influencing SPAC activities in these markets. Finally, we discuss the value and limitations of SPACs as an access to public capital markets. This report shows that the performance of SPACs has been largely disappointing, particularly for retail investors. The possibility for SPACs to disseminate positively biased narratives, among other factors, has in our view contributed to the boom in their activity. We think that the future of SPACs, as we know them, is currently uncertain due to several factors, including a reduction in the strength of underlying driving forces fueling the growth in SPAC activity (e.g., booming equity market, increase in trading activities of inexperienced investors), and an increasing regulatory oversight, notably by the SEC in the US, which may reduce the possibility to engage in a regulatory arbitrage in critical matters such as SPAC disclosures.


Keywords: SPAC, Narrative Economics, Mergers & Acquisitions, Transactions

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Maupas, Philippe and Paugam, Luc, Regulatory Arbitrage on Narrative Steroids: The Case of SPACs (December 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3985936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
O Aliaj , J Fontanella-Khan
SPAC share prices slump as enthusiasm wanes. Financial Times Posted: 2021-05-04
J O Aliaj , N Fontanella-Khan , Megaw
Soaring SPAC redemptions signal their fall from favour. Withdrawals cast doubt over claims of greater deal certainty than traditional IPOs. Financial Times Posted: 2021-09-27
O Aliaj , T Thiam , J.-P Mustier
FT Due Diligence Forum: The global landscape for SPACs. Panel Discussion Posted: 2021-03-31
Amf
Le cadre juridique français permet d'accueillir les SPAC à Paris tout en veillant à la protection des investisseurs Posted: 2021-04-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
559
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,339
RANK
113,025
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies