Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis the Effect of Financial Distress, Leverage and Free Cash Flow on Earnings Management

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Rifka; Amiruddin; Pontoh, G.T. (2021). Analysis the Effect of Financial Distress, Leverage and Free Cash Flow on Earnings Management, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(3), 111 – 119. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.3(1)

9 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Rifka Aulia Inayah

Department of Accounting,Hasanuddin University,Indonesia

Amiruddin Amiruddin

Department of Accounting,Hasanuddin University,Indonesia

GraceT. Pontoh

Department of Accounting,Hasanuddin University,Indonesia

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

Objective - This study aims to determine and analyze the effect of financial distress, leverage, free cash flow on earnings management.

Methodology/Technique - The object of this research is all companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange with an observation period of 2019. The sample determination uses the purposive sampling method and a total sample of 124 companies is obtained. The analysis technique used is multiple linear regression analysis.

Findings - The results show that financial distress has no significant effect on earnings management. Leverage and free cash flow have a negative and significant effect on earnings management.

Novelty - This research contributes to signalling theory, which is used by company managers who have better information about their company will be encouraged to convey this information to potential investors where this is intended so that companies can increase company value by sending signals through financial statements of companies listed on the IDX.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Financial Distress, Leverage, Free Cash Flow, earnings Management.

JEL Classification: G32, M21,M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Inayah, Rifka Aulia and Amiruddin, Amiruddin and Pontoh, GraceT., Analysis the Effect of Financial Distress, Leverage and Free Cash Flow on Earnings Management (December 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Rifka; Amiruddin; Pontoh, G.T. (2021). Analysis the Effect of Financial Distress, Leverage and Free Cash Flow on Earnings Management, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(3), 111 – 119. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.3(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
D Agustia
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance, Free Cash Flow and Leverage Factors on Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2013
Akbar Roy , Herlambang
Analisis Pengaruh Free Cash Flow Dan Financial Leverage Terhadap Manajemen Laba Dengan Gcg Sebagai Variabel Moderasi
Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling , volume 53 , issue 9 , p. 1689 - 1699 Posted: 2017
K F Anisah
Effect of Free Cash Flow and Leverage on Earnings Management in Manufacturing Companies on the IDX
Journal of Accountants , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 64 - 76 Posted: 2017
D D Ariesanti
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance and Financial Distress Mechanisms on Earnings Management (Case Study on Banking Companies Listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange 2009-2014)
Journal of Accounting Unesa , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
913
RANK
202,123
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies