Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Initial Public Offerings (IPO) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in the Years 2006, 2007. The Issue Costs and the Value of the Discount Rate for Lack of Marketability (DLOM)

In: Frąckowiak, W. & Kochalski, C. (eds). Modern Managerial Finance. New Trends And Research Areas, pp. 89-108. Poznań: Wydawnictwo UEP.

21 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021

Grzegorz Mikołajewicz

Poznań University of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 1, 2010

Abstract

The article presents transaction costs connected with selling assets, as well as the value of liquidity for investors, and the methods of including the lack of marketability (DLOM) in the process of valuing private companies. The studies results concerning the illiquidity discount, presented in the article, indicate that its level fluctuates considerably depending on the adopted research method. There is, however, a consensus as to the fact that the liquidity of an asset prays an important role for the investor and in the lack thereof the investor can demand a compensation in the form of a lower purchase price or a higher rate of return. Taking into consideration the share of initial public offering costs in the total offer value on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in the years 2006 and 2007, and at the same time keeping in mind the limitations of such an approach, as discussed earlier, the illiquidity discount calculated on this base for the Polish companies can be estimated to be about 5.0-8.5%.

Keywords: DLOM, discount for lack of marketability, liquidity, stock price, private company, discount, IPO

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Mikołajewicz, Grzegorz, The Initial Public Offerings (IPO) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in the Years 2006, 2007. The Issue Costs and the Value of the Discount Rate for Lack of Marketability (DLOM) (June 1, 2010). In: Frąckowiak, W. & Kochalski, C. (eds). Modern Managerial Finance. New Trends And Research Areas, pp. 89-108. Poznań: Wydawnictwo UEP., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
339
RANK
778,745
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies