Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hypocrisy, Skepticism, and Reputation: The Mediating Role of Corporate Social Responsibility

Marketing Intelligence & Planning, 37(6), 706-720. doi:10.1108/mip-10-2018-0434

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 17 Dec 2021

Denni Arli

Griffith University - School of Marketing

Patrick van Esch

Kennesaw State University

Gavin Northey

Department of Marketing, Griffith University

Michael SW Lee

University of Auckland Business School

Radu Dimitriu

Trinity College Dublin

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to examine the effect of corporate hypocrisy and consumer skepticism on perceived corporate reputation. In addition, the effect of perceived corporate social responsibility (CSR) in mediating the relationship between corporate hypocrisy and consumer skepticism toward perceived corporate reputation.

Design/methodology/approach
An experimental design was employed to test the effects of corporate hypocrisy and consumer skepticism on consumers’ perception of a firm’s corporate reputation, as well as the role of perceived CSR as a causal mechanism. Analysis involved structural equation modeling (AMOS) to test hypotheses. A convenience sample (n=837) was recruited from the USA and Australia to allow for any national biases or brand familiarity effects and to ensure the results were robust and generalizable.

Findings
Corporate hypocrisy and consumers’ skepticism significantly influences perceived CSR and corporate reputation. Furthermore, a consumer’s level of perceived CSR acts as a causal mechanism, mediating the relationship between corporate hypocrisy and skepticism on perceived corporate reputation.

Practical implications
The importance of being transparent and honest toward consumers. When companies are inconsistent in their CSR activities, it increases consumers’ skepticism toward the brand. Nonetheless, CSR has a positive influence on the consumers’ perception of corporate reputation and this, in turn, will positively influences consumers’ support for the firm.

Originality/value
The first empirical evidence that companies producing vices (such as beer) generate lower expectations in the minds of the consumers, meaning there is less impact on brand reputation when consumers feel the CSR does not fit with the brand image.

Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/MIP-10-2018-0434

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Corporate reputation, Consumer skepticism, Consumer support, Corporate hypocrisy, pro-social

Suggested Citation:

Arli, Denni and van Esch, Patrick and Northey, Gavin and Lee, Michael SW and Dimitriu, Radu, Hypocrisy, Skepticism, and Reputation: The Mediating Role of Corporate Social Responsibility (2019). Marketing Intelligence & Planning, 37(6), 706-720. doi:10.1108/mip-10-2018-0434, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3985764
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies