Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management: Do the Experience and Gender of Big4 Auditors Matters?

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Abdullah, A.H.C; Saleh, N.M. (2021). Real Earnings Management: Do the Experience and Gender of Big4 Auditors Matters?Acc. Fin. Review, 6(3), 155 – 166. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.3(4)

12 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Abdul Halim Chew Abdullah

Center for Governance Resilience and Accountability, Faculty of Economics and Management Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Norman Mohd Saleh

Center for Governance Resilience and Accountability, Faculty of Economics and Management Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

Objective - This study examines whether the experience and gender of auditors in Big4 firm in relationship of deterring Real Earnings Management (REM).Different from the majority of previous studies, this study focuses on auditors in Big4 audit firms and real earnings management within Malaysian business environment. Big4 audit firms are associated with high quality audit because of the reputation to uphold, thusadopted stringent quality control and assurance approach, systems and procedures. Once adopted, the effect of individual characteristics may become less important. Thus, it is questionable whether individual characteristics such as auditor experience and gender could still have an influence on the outcomes of an audit, in this case, REM, when the audit firms are Big 4 (assuming very stringent quality control procedures are adopted).

Methodology/Technique - This study substantiates prior literatureand conducted tests only on companies audited by Big4 audit firms.We also find that auditor experiences confirms to Agency Theory where REM reduces when the experience increases.Data was obtained from the Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM), DataStream and Bursa Malaysia.

Findings - The result confirms prior literature that auditor experience isstillanimportant factor that can limit REM, even in companies audited by the Big4 firms. The results howeverreveal that Big4 female auditors do not have any significant effect in reducing REM.

Novelty - Although female auditors are claimed by Gender Socialization Theory, to have better moral judgments than male auditors, the result shows both genders are equal, at least in limiting REM.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Big4 Auditors, Auditor Experience, Real Earnings Management, Auditor Gender, Bursa Malaysia

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Abdullah, Abdul Halim Chew and Saleh, Norman Mohd, Real Earnings Management: Do the Experience and Gender of Big4 Auditors Matters? (December 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Abdullah, A.H.C; Saleh, N.M. (2021). Real Earnings Management: Do the Experience and Gender of Big4 Auditors Matters?Acc. Fin. Review, 6(3), 155 – 166. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.3(4), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3986916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K Baatour , H Othman , Ben , K Hussainey
The effect of multiple directorships on real and accrualbased earnings management: Evidence from Saudi listed firms
Accounting Research Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 412 Posted: 2017
R A Bernardi , D F Arnold Sr
An Examination of Moral Development within Public Accounting by Gender, Staff Level, and Firm
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 653 - 668 Posted: 1997
M Betz , L O'connell , J M Shepard
Gender differences in proclivity for unethical behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 321 - 324 Posted: 1989
L H Chan , K C Chen , T Y Chen , Y Yu
Substitution between Real and Accruals-Based Earnings Management after Voluntary Adoption of Compensation Clawback Provisions
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 174 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
427
RANK
411,549
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies