Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Adoption of IFRS As an Example of International Financial Law Making

53 George Washington International Law Review 239 (2021)

Deakin Law School Research Paper

53 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Zehra G. Kavame Eroglu

Deakin University, Geelong, Australia - Deakin Law School

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

Today, 144 jurisdictions have fully adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Adding the number of jurisdictions that have not adopted but have converged their national standards with IFRS, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) is the world’s standard-setter on financial reporting. This Article focuses on the adoption of IFRS around the world and provides a better framework for analyzing the IFRS adoption process as an example of international financial law making. The initial step taken in this Article is acknowledging “adoption” as the tool that brings legitimacy and power to a private international organization with a board of experts setting standards as soft law. Therefore, the first answer to the major question at hand is that nations “adopt” IFRS as a newfound mechanism of international financial law making. These standards as part of international financial regulations create the new global order. This new global order is well supported by powerful states and international organizations. The second step is looking at the underlying reasons behind countries’ decisions to adopt IFRS. The impact of these standards on a particular country’s financial and legal systems depends on the reasons behind the country’s decision to adopt IFRS. While each country has taken a different path, we can distinguish three models of adoption: mandatory, voluntary, and compelled. First, in the case of the European Union (E.U.) Member States, adoption was mandatory. The international standards became binding for all Member States with a decision by the E.U. Parliament. Second, in the case of many developed and developing countries—such as Australia, Canada, South Africa, Japan, and China—adoption, or conversion, was voluntary but probably essential to be and stay competitive in international capital markets and to attract foreign direct investment. Finally, the third group of countries that adopted IFRS did so under pressure from international institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which conditioned credits or financial aid upon the adoption of IFRS. This was the case in Kenya, Peru, and Ukraine; similarly, IMF influence also motivated Egypt’s adoption of new standards comparable to IFRS. This Article argues that whether a country’s convergence to IFRS was mandatory, voluntary, or compelled affects its enforcement and implementation in that country because the underlying incentives vary accordingly.

Keywords: IFRS, international financial law making, harmonization, law & accounting, standard setting

JEL Classification: K22, K33, M41, M48,O16

Suggested Citation:

Kavame Eroglu, Zehra G., Global Adoption of IFRS As an Example of International Financial Law Making (December 15, 2021). 53 George Washington International Law Review 239 (2021), Deakin Law School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3986216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
186 References
The International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation is a not-for-profit corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware, United States of America, with the Delaware Division of Companies (file no: 3353113), and is registered as an overseas company in England and Wales (reg no: FC023235)
About Us, IFRS , volume 1 Posted: 2007
Id
These standards [International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)] are written by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), a private organization located in London. The IASB is, in turn, directed and financed by the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation (IASCF)
E G See , A Lawrence , Cunningham
The SEC's Global Accounting Vision: A Realistic Appraisal of a Quixotic Quest
C. L. REV , volume 87 Posted: 2008
See generally Douglas W. Arner, Globalisation of Financial Markets: An International Passport for Securities Offerings?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
95,557
186 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies