Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Quality Index – Modelling CGQ in UAE listed firms (2012-2016)

11 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Yousuf Khan

London South Bank University; Higher Colleges of Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 16, 2021

Abstract

Purpose of the paper - A well-functioning capital market provides the platform for an integrative approach to information, managerial incentives and governance between the providers of finance and stewards of that finance. Internally-adopted (e.g. board structure etc.) and externally-imposed (e.g. external audit) sets of corporate governance mechanisms provide the leverage by which the board of directors manages the company’s affairs and ensures the strategic and financial stability of the firm.

Theme - This paper refers to the Finance theme and as such offers insights in to “Empirical analysis of companies deploying new business models in finance” of the Finance stream of the DMC conference. One important role of corporate governance is to manage agency issues by aligning the interests of owners more closely with that of management. To that end, extant literature on corporate governance focuses on directly linking corporate governance to corporate performance. However, empirical findings from the prior research are mixed and inconclusive.

Design/methodology/approach - Employing a constructivist approach, the CGI has been developed on the basis of the best published information available and disclosed in annual reports and other media. The index has been constructed in line with the methodology adopted by Hawkamah using their “Behavioural Assessment Score for Investors and Corporations” (BASIC) technique for ascertaining/modeling CG Quality in the UAE listed firms. The CGI variable assumes an explanatory quality in the regression analyses.

Findings - Findings show that CGQ is somewhat weak in the UAE and thus necessitate greater regulatory demand for disclosure relative to the regulation that requires them. Moreover, findings also suggest that the UAE CG Code broadly reflects an international flavour and convergence to a large extent; although some provisions contained in the code reflect localised conditions.

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Yousuf, Corporate Governance Quality Index – Modelling CGQ in UAE listed firms (2012-2016) (December 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3987142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
375
RANK
848,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies