Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Control Precision and Prior Collaboration Experience on Trust and Cooperation in Inter-Organizational Relationships

Forthcoming at The Accounting Review

49 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

Shannon W. Anderson

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Mandy M. Cheng

UNSW Sydney

Yee Shih Phua

UNSW Sydney

Date Written: December 16, 2021

Abstract

We investigate whether prior collaboration experience affects a focal partner’s response to the precision of monitoring controls adopted by a new partner, with consequences for their goodwill trust in, and subsequent cooperation with, the new partner. We expect the partner to interpret their new partner’s adoption of precise monitoring controls as either an effort to limit their autonomy or to reduce information asymmetry. The partner’s experience with past partners is posited to determine which interpretation is salient, with negative (positive) experiences favoring the former (latter). We find that partners with an uncooperative (cooperative) experience exhibit lower (higher) goodwill trust in the new partner when controls are more precise. Further, prior experience moderates the indirect relation between the precision of monitoring controls and partner cooperation acting through goodwill trust. The results demonstrate the importance of prior experiences in the design of interfirm controls for current partner relationships.

Keywords: management control, monitoring, autonomy, reciprocity, inter-organizational relationships, experiment.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Shannon W. and Cheng, Mandy M. and Phua, Yee Shih, Influence of Control Precision and Prior Collaboration Experience on Trust and Cooperation in Inter-Organizational Relationships (December 16, 2021). Forthcoming at The Accounting Review , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
S A Anderson , H F Chang , M M Cheng , Y S Phua
Getting to know you: Trust formation in new buyer-supplier relationships and the investment consequences for management control and collaboration
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 940 - 965 Posted: 2017
S W Anderson , H C Dekker , A Van Den Abbeele
Costly control: An examination of the trade-off between control investments and residual risk in interfirm transactions
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 7 , p. 2163 - 2180 Posted: 2017
J Andreoni
Cooperation in public-goods experiments: Kindness or confusion?
American Economic Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 891 - 904 Posted: 1995
J Andreoni , J H Miller
Rational cooperation in the finitely repeated prisoner's dilemma: Experimental evidence
Economic Journal , volume 103 , issue 418 , p. 570 - 585 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
302,262
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies