Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Deferral Plans and Insider Trading

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Jan 2022 Last revised: 16 Feb 2022

Francesca Franco

Bocconi University

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 13, 2021

Abstract

We study executive equity contributions to nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which consist of the election to defer part or all of the executive’s annual base salary and other cash pay into the company’s stock. These transactions provide executives with an alternative channel to purchase shares in the firm while benefiting from an affirmative defense against illegal insider-trading allegations. Using a large sample of executive equity deferrals over 2000–2014, we find evidence that executives use these transactions as a means to acquire the company’s stock during blackout windows. Consistent with the conjecture that deferrals can benefit from lower litigation costs that inhibit insider trades before the release of corporate news, we also find that the deferred amounts are significantly higher (lower) before the disclosure of good (bad) earnings news. These results suggest that executives can use equity deferrals to circumvent Rule 10b5 trading restrictions and generate significant returns through the timing and content of corporate disclosures around these transactions. Together, our evidence supports the recent concerns that executives might be engaging in strategic information releases around Rule 10b5 transactions.

Keywords: deferred compensation, Rule 10b5-1 plans, insider trading, strategic disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Franco, Francesca and Urcan, Oktay, Executive Deferral Plans and Insider Trading (December 13, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987909
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies