Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De-SPACing: Tattooed Chef Inc.

Darden Case No. UVA-F-1996

20 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2021

George (Yiorgos) Allayannis

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Aldo Sesia

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

In late October 2020, hedge fund analyst Maya Botti was evaluating the decision to vote for the proposed merger of Forum Merger IIa special purpose acquisition company (SPAC), with Ittella International, a plant-based food company; if the SPAC shareholders voted in favor of the merger, Botti also had to recommend that the hedge fund's leadership redeem the hedge fund's shares in Forum II, sell the shares in the open market, or continue as shareholders of the merged company. The case provides an opportunity to discuss SPACs, including their structure; key players and participants in them; and their risks, rewards, and potential pitfalls. The case also provides an opportunity to discuss differences between regular IPOs and to compare and contrast IPOs to SPACs.This case can be taught in a second-year elective course on capital markets, financial institutions, and markets or capital raising. It can fit in a module that explores financial engineering and instruments such as collateralized debt obligations or that discusses ways of going public and contrasting them with regular IPOs.

Excerpt

UVA-F-1996

Dec. 15, 2021

De-SPACing: Tattooed Chef Inc.

On Monday, October 12, 2020, Maya Botti, a senior analyst at a prominent hedge fund, was asked to provide guidance to the fund's leadership as to whether to vote in favor of the proposed merger of Forum Merger II (Forum II), a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC), with plant-based food company Ittella International to form Tattooed Chef, Inc. (Tattooed Chef). If the merger was approved by shareholders, she then needed to advise the leadership about whether to redeem the shares the hedge fund held in Forum II, sell the shares in the open market, or hold on to the shares after the merger. The vote was scheduled for October 15, 2020. The hedge fund at which Botti worked had acquired units (shares and warrants) in Forum II at its IPO. Per the SPAC's terms and conditions, shareholders could redeem their shares at the time of the merger for the IPO price plus interest. While Botti was familiar with SPACs, she needed to immerse herself in the details before making a recommendation. Getting it right could go a long way toward achieving her next career goal of being a portfolio manager.

SPACs

A descendant of the so-called blank check companies of the 1980s, which were often maligned as suspect investment schemes, SPACs first appeared in the 1990s equipped with protections for investors. A SPAC was a shell company with no operations that raised money via an initial public offering (IPO) to later merge with (or acquire) an undetermined private company. This enabled a private company to go public without a traditional IPO or direct listing. When a SPAC merged with a private company (called a business combination), that combined business became publicly traded. Participation in SPAC IPOs by well-known private equity firms, hedge funds, banks, and entrepreneurs gave credibility to SPACs, helping to fuel their growth especially from 2015 onward. (See Exhibit1.) In early 2020, the pace of SPAC IPOs in the United States indicated higher volumes than in 2019, which had set an all-time record.

. . .

Keywords: SPAC, special purpose acquisition company, hedge fund, IPO, stakeholders, shareholders, food sector, M&A, mergers and acquisitions, investment, risk, sponsor, private equity

Suggested Citation:

Allayannis, George (Yiorgos) and Sesia, Aldo, De-SPACing: Tattooed Chef Inc.. Darden Case No. UVA-F-1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3988346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3988346
Purchase - $6.25
30 References
Financial Projections in SPAC Transactions: Mitigating Class Action Litigation Risk Posted: 2020-10-12
Minmo Gahng , Jay R Ritter , Donghang Zhang
SPACs Posted: 2021-07-23
Michael Sheetz
CNBC
Virgin Galactic Is Set to Trade on the NYSE on Monday as the First Space Tourism Stock Posted: 2019-10-24
Robert Huebscher
How SPACs Destroy Investor Wealth Posted: 2020-12-21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies