Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Sector of Pakistan: Impact of Board of Directors’ Size on Performance

KASBIT Business Journal, 2021

22 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2022

Ghalib Ayub Hassan

Bahria University

Mubashir Ali Khan

Bahria University

Date Written: September 17, 2021

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to examine the relationship between the Board of Directors’ size and the bank’s performance. Independent variables like Board ownership, Board size, Yearly Board Meetings, Yearly Audit Committee meetings, CEO Ownership, CEO Tenure, Executive Ownership, and Role Duality whereas Return on Assets as a dependent variable are used to measure this relationship. This study uses the data of 32 banks listed in the Pakistan Stock Exchange between the period 2002-2018. To examine the impact statistically, PLS Regression Random Effect Model is used due to higher significance and t-statistics values after exploring both Fixed and random effect models through the Housman test. Results show that board meetings and shares held by the CEO have a negative but significant association with banks’ performance. Audit committee meetings and a total number of board of directors have a significant and positive association with the performance of the bank. CEO Tenure, duality, shares held by the executive director, and shares held by the board of directors have a positive but non-significant association with banks' performance. Study variables explain variation in performance by 55.34%.

Keywords: Pakistan Stock Exchange, Board of Directors’ Size, Performance, Executive Factors, Random Effect Model, ROA

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Ghalib Ayub and Khan, Mubashir Ali, Banking Sector of Pakistan: Impact of Board of Directors’ Size on Performance (September 17, 2021). KASBIT Business Journal, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3988043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
R Adams , H Mehran
Is corporate governance different for bank holding companies
Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 142 Posted: 2003
R Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
A Ahmad , K Rehman , M I Saif
Islamic Banking Experience of Pakistan: Comparison of Islamic and Conventional Banks
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 144 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
747,544
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies