Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Dual Holdings and Expected Crash Risk: Evidence from Mergers between Lenders and Equity Holders

Posted: 20 Dec 2021 Last revised: 21 Dec 2021

Bing Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Zhenbin Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Shijie Yang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Date Written: December 19, 2021

Abstract

Exploiting mergers between lenders and shareholders of the same firm as an exogenous shock to dual ownership, we examine the role that dual holdings (i.e., simultaneous equity and debt holding) play in shaping firms’ ex ante expected stock price crash risk evident in the options implied volatility smirk. Given their privileged access to information as lenders and their double stakes, dual holders have both an information advantage and stronger monitoring incentives relative to other investors. We find that firms’ ex ante expected crash risk subsides after the shareholder-creditor merger. Consistent with expectations, we find strong, robust evidence that the negative impact of mergers on firms’ expected crash risk rises when the stakes that the institutional investors or lenders hold in the treatment firms are larger. We also find that expected crash risk decreases more subsequent to mergers in firms suffering worse asymmetry evident in fewer corporate disclosures (e.g., management earnings forecasts and 8-K filings) and more diverse analyst earnings forecasts. The impact is also generally concentrated in firms with lax internal or external monitoring mechanisms (evident in less independent boards and audit committees, poor internal controls, the absence of specialist auditors, less extensive analyst coverage, a lower takeover threat, and lower institutional ownership). Additionally, we show that our main finding is unlikely to be driven by indirect effects through shifts in financing or payout policies documented in prior research. Our results suggest that option market participants perceive the dual holding as a strong indication of the low expected crash risk of the underlying stock.

Keywords: Shareholder-creditor conflicts; Dual holding; Expected crash risk; Bad news hoarding; Monitoring.

JEL Classification: G12; G21; G23; G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bing and Liu, Zhenbin and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Shijie, Institutional Dual Holdings and Expected Crash Risk: Evidence from Mergers between Lenders and Equity Holders (December 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3988971
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies