Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CEOs Punished for Managing Earnings?

46 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2021 Last revised: 19 Jan 2024

Xia Li

Aston University - Aston Business School

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Ziwen Bu

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

Agency theory suggests that monetary incentives are effective mechanisms to align managers’ and shareholders’ interests. Hence, value-maximizing managerial decisions are positively related to their compensation levels, and vice versa. Several studies confirm that the practice of earnings management (EM) could be detrimental to a firm’s value, however, the literature examining the relation between CEOs’ total compensation and EM remains inconclusive. This may be due to the unobserved determinants of executive compensation. In line with the predictions of agency theory, this study provides conclusive evidence of this relation by documenting a negative relation between abnormal compensation (the proportion of pay that cannot be accurately determined by known factors) and EM. Thus, suggesting that CEOs involved in EM are penalized in the form of reduced excess compensation. Additionally, we find that the negative association between EM and ACOMP persists in both high and low-governance firms, and is robust to the presence of both internal and external corporate governance mechanisms as additional control variables. Since real earnings management (REM) is arguably more value-destructive in the long run, our results also confirm that CEOs involved in higher levels of REM are penalized more severely than CEOs involved in higher levels of accrual earnings management (AEM).

Keywords: Executive compensation; Abnormal compensation; Earnings management

JEL Classification: M12; M41; G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xia and Gupta, Jairaj and De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Bu, Ziwen, Are CEOs Punished for Managing Earnings? (December 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3988067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3988067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A.-K Achleitner , N Günther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real earnings management and accrual-based earnings management in family firms
The European Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
D Adut , A D Holder , A Robin
Predictive versus opportunistic earnings management, executive compensation, and firm performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 126 - 146 Posted: 2013
R B Adams , V Ragunathan , R Tumarkin
Death by committee? An analysis of corporate board (sub-) committees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , issue 3 , p. 1119 - 1146 Posted: 2021
N Aktas , P C Andreou , I Karasamani , D Philip
CEO Duality, Agency costs, and internal capital allocation efficiency
British Journal of Management , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 473 - 493 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,576
RANK
264,473
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies