Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Spending and the Performance of the Top CSR Contributing Companies; An Analysis Based on Financial Parameters.

9 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2022

Dibin K K

SB College

Vignesh Karthik

SCMS School of Engineering and Technology

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

In the present era, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has become important to such an extent that it has been often used as a yardstick by the investors for measuring the performance of the stock. Indian corporate sector nowadays is willing to spend huge amount of money in order to sustain their goodwill before their stakeholders. The amendment of The Companies Act 2013, has made it mandatory for the companies to take up socially relevant CSR activities which have made India, the only nation which has regulated and mandated CSR. This initiative has helped the nation move towards achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and is eventually evolving as an important contributor towards government spending. As per National CSR Data portal, the total number of registered CSR companies comes to 19,933 and the total contributions made by them is 13,465 crores (Rs.) for the Financial Year (FY) 2016-17. This paper focuses on finding the impact of CSR spending on the performance of the top 10 companies based on their CSR spending for the last 10 years. The variables used for the study are Goodwill, Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) Disclosure scores, Enterprise Value (EV), Beta and share prices.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Government spending, Enterprise Value, ESG disclosures

JEL Classification: M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

K K, Dibin and Karthik, Vignesh, CSR Spending and the Performance of the Top CSR Contributing Companies; An Analysis Based on Financial Parameters. (December 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3989990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3989990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
A Dornean , D C Oanea
CSR and Company's Stock Price. A Comparative Evidence from Bucharest Stock Exchange EuroEconomica , p. 175 - 184 Posted: 2017
Caroline Flammer
Does Corporate Social Responsibility Lead to Superior Financial Performance? A Regression Discontinuity Approach
SSRN Posted: 2013-10
Maria Izzo , Federica , Francesca Di Donato
The Relation between Corporate Social Responsibility and Stock Prices: An Analysis of the Italian Listed Companies
SSRN Posted: 2012-01-16
G Fiori , F Di Donato , M F Izzo
Corporate social responsibility and stock prices: A study on the Italian market , volume 12 , p. 600 - 609 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
456,571
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies