Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pilot CEOs and Management Earnings Forecasts

Gao, Li., Shi, Yuan., Xu, Hongkang., 2022. Pilot CEOs and Management Earnings Forecasts. Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jcaf.22534

Posted: 22 Mar 2022

Li Gao

State University of New York at New Paltz

Yuan Shi

Penn State Great Valley

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the association between pilot CEOs and management earnings forecasts. We find that firms with pilot CEOs are associated with a lower likelihood of issuing voluntary earnings forecasts, suggesting that pilot CEOs are less likely to release private information through earnings forecast. We further investigate the association between pilot CEOs and management forecast characteristics such as forecast accuracy, bias, and precision. Our empirical results reveal that firms with a pilot CEO offer more accurate and more conservative forecasts than firms with a non-pilot CEO. This evidence is consistent with our argument that pilot CEOs establish superior situation awareness talents and develop conservative predicting attitudes from their flying experience. Overall, our study sheds light on how CEO’s off-the-job experience affects management earnings forecast behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Li and Shi, Yuan and Xu, Hongkang, Pilot CEOs and Management Earnings Forecasts (December 20, 2021). Gao, Li., Shi, Yuan., Xu, Hongkang., 2022. Pilot CEOs and Management Earnings Forecasts. Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jcaf.22534, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3989992
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies