Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Impact of Liquidity and Leverage on Performance: Hotels and Entertainment Services Industry – MENA Region: An Empirical Panel Data Analysis

Proceedings of the International Conference on Advances in Management Practices (ICAMP 2021)

Posted: 21 Dec 2021

Suzan Dsouza

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Rezart Demiraj

American University of the Middle East

Houshang Habibniya

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims at determining the impact of liquidity and leverage on the performance of the Hotels and Entertainment Services Industry in the MENA region, using a sample of 71 selected publicly quoted firms in the cited industrial sector of the designated countries from the MENA region.

Design/methodology/approach – Quantitative approach, pooled panel regression, univariate analysis, correlation, and descriptive statistics models are used by taking annual data of the Hotels and Entertainment Services Industry in the 2010 to 2020 period in the MENA region, available on the Thomson Reuters (Refinitiv) Database. An unbalanced cross-sectional data (panel data) comprising 677 firm-year observations for 71 firms is studied.

Findings – The results revealed that liquidity (current ratio (CR)) has a significant and positive impact on the company performance (return on asset and return on equity (ROA & ROE)). Leverage (debt equity ratio (D/E)) has a significant and negative impact on performance (ROA and ROE). A further robustness test to the main model was conducted by modifying one of the variables, quick ratio (QR), which is the proxy for liquidity, and further classifying the MENA region as Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and non-GCC countries. As per the robust results, although the D/E has a negative relationship and the QR has a positive relationship with ROA and ROE in the MENA, GCC, and non-GCC regions, the QR and D/E significance levels are weak with ROE in the MENA region. In the GCC region, the D/E significance level is weak with ROA, and the QR and D/E significance levels are weak with ROE. In the non-GCC region, the QR significance level is weak with ROE, and the QR and D/E significance levels are weak with ROA.

Research limitations/implications – Due to the limitations on data availability, countries with lower economies in the selected region are ignored.


Keywords: Liquidity, Leverage, Performance, MENA, Services Industry

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dsouza, Suzan and Demiraj, Rezart and Habibniya, Houshang, A Study on the Impact of Liquidity and Leverage on Performance: Hotels and Entertainment Services Industry – MENA Region: An Empirical Panel Data Analysis (December 17, 2021). Proceedings of the International Conference on Advances in Management Practices (ICAMP 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3989995
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
437
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies