Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comprehensive Analysis of the Business Literacies of Australian Small Businesses

Melissa Belle Isle and Brett Freudenberg, (2021), A comprehensive analysis of the business literacies of Australian small businesses, Journal of Australian Taxation 23(1): 67 - 102

Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming

20 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021 Last revised: 2 Feb 2023

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

Little is known about the knowledge (literacy) of small business owners (SBO). This is of concern as the capabilities of SBOs may be central to the success of their business. For example, such literacies might influence the SBO’s ability to manage cashflow, know their obligations under the tax system and how to interpret the financial position of the business. This article reports a survey of small businesses in the service sector in terms of their literacy for financial statements, computer accounting software and business tax, and if there is any relationship between them. Results demonstrates that there is a linear relationship between them and that certain demographics are likely to have lower overall literacy.

Keywords: small business, tax, literacy, cashflow, accounting

JEL Classification: K34, M40, I29

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett, A Comprehensive Analysis of the Business Literacies of Australian Small Businesses (December 20, 2021). Melissa Belle Isle and Brett Freudenberg, (2021), A comprehensive analysis of the business literacies of Australian small businesses, Journal of Australian Taxation 23(1): 67 - 102, Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3989424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
588,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies