Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Asset Quality and Financial Performance of Commercial Banks Before and After Shifting Capital City Located to Dodoma Region, Tanzania

9 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021

James Chindengwike

St. John's University of Tanzania

AMIDA MOHAMED MNYAMPANDA

College of Business Education (CBE)

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

Commercial banks have a strategic and essential contribution to the growth of the national economy. The study examined the relationship between asset quality and financial performance of commercial banks before and after shifting capital city located to Dodoma region, Tanzania. Through a quantitative research approach coupled with panel data were generated through document reviews. The research location was carried out at National Microfinance Bank Plc (NMB), Co-operative Rural Development Bank (CRDB) and Tanzania Postal Bank (TPB) located in Dodoma Region. The population of this study comprised quarterly financial data from 2010-2020. A sample size of 120 observations calculated by taking the (quarterly) financial data of 10 years from three commercial banks so, Three (3) commercial banks was involved namely; NMB, CRDB and TPB. This study was employed purposive sampling procedure. The data was extracted from reliable source such as Bank of Tanzania (BOT) and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE. The findings show that there is a relationship between asset quality and financial performance before and after shifting the capital city from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma Region (P-Value of 0.006),(0.003 ) and (0.005) CRDB, NMB and TPB respectively. It is, therefore, concluded that there is a statistically significant association between the shift of the capital city from Dar Es Salaam to Dodoma Region and financial performance of commercial banks in Tanzania before shifting capital city and after shifting the capital city. The study recommends that the Bank of Tanzania, international financial organizations and policymakers to supervise the operations of commercial banks to increase asset quality. This may be done by monitoring and mentoring to show good directions to the commercial banks.

Suggested Citation:

Chindengwike, James and MNYAMPANDA, AMIDA MOHAMED, Relationship between Asset Quality and Financial Performance of Commercial Banks Before and After Shifting Capital City Located to Dodoma Region, Tanzania (December 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3989888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3989888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
M Adams , B Burton , P Hardwick
The determinants of credit ratings in the United Kingdom insurance industry
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 537 - 539 Posted: 2003
P Deborah
Capital Relocation in Africa : The Case of Lilongwe in Malawi
The Geographical Journal , volume 151 , issue 2 , p. 182 - 196 Posted: 2010
R Dgl
Impact of Credit Risk on Financial Performance of Sri Lankan Commercial Banks , volume 2 , p. 2 - 7 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
RANK
427,290
5 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies