Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management Determinants: A Study of Egyptian Listed Firm Characteristics Post the Egyptian Revolution

ElHawary, E., & Hassouna, D. (2021). Earnings management determinants: A study of Egyptian listed firm characteristics post the Egyptian revolution [Special issue]. Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(2), 165–183. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i2sip5

19 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2022

Engy Elhawary

The British University in Egypt - Faculty of Business Administration, Economics, and Political Science

Dina Hassouna

British University in Egypt

Date Written: December 21, 2021

Abstract

This research aims to look at how firm characteristics and audit quality can affect the earning management practices in the Egyptian context, within the period of 2011–2019. This period was after the Egyptian revolution and has not been well investigated in Egypt, especially after the new release of corporate governance rules for listing firms. A sample of 157 non-financial listed companies in the Egyptian stock exchange is selected for achieving the research objective through analysing their financial reports. The panel least squares, using the fixed-effect model, is used to test the hypotheses and investigate the relationship between discretional accruals and firm characteristics, where the dependent variable is the earnings management, measured by the discretionary accruals and the independent variables are the firm characteristics (size, financial leverage, age, survival and audit quality). The results illustrate that the relationship between a firm’s financial leverage and earnings management is positive. This study may help the firms to control their financial leverage for avoiding any earnings management practice. The stakeholders should notice such significant firm characteristics in making their own decisions, especially after the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, which may expectedly increase the firm financial leverage, and in turn, some earning management practices can be used intentionally to hide the bad firm performance.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Egyptian Revolution, Financial Reporting Quality, Audit Quality, Information Asymmetry, Financial Leverage, Firm Characteristics, Egyptian Stock Exchange, Panel Least Squares Method

JEL Classification: C120, C180, G010, G140, G180, G23, G30, G380, G410, M420, M480

Suggested Citation:

Elhawary, Engy and Hassouna, Dina, Earnings Management Determinants: A Study of Egyptian Listed Firm Characteristics Post the Egyptian Revolution (December 21, 2021). ElHawary, E., & Hassouna, D. (2021). Earnings management determinants: A study of Egyptian listed firm characteristics post the Egyptian revolution [Special issue]. Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(2), 165–183. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i2sip5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3990958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
251,747
160 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies