Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Ethics and Accounting Irregularities

62 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2021

Jianchuan Luo

Luiss University

Date Written: December 2021

Abstract

This paper uses executives' membership on an extramarital dating website as a negative proxy for ethics and finds that financial statements from the firms of unethical executives are more likely to be restated. The likelihood of restatement is higher when unethical executives are CEOs. Restatements cluster around a few issues, with executive compensation being one of the most prominent. Unethical executives are also associated with ineffective internal controls, material weaknesses, and securities lawsuits. When unethical executives are revealed, their firms' stock prices decline. The decline is steeper for firms with recent restatements. In the subsequent year, executives revealed as unethical whose firms have restatement histories are more likely to be demoted and receive less compensation.

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Jianchuan, Executive Ethics and Accounting Irregularities (December 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3990921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3990921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female Board Presence and the Likelihood of Financial Restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do Auditors Recognize the Potential Dark Side of Executives' Accounting Competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
P R Amato , S J Rogers
A Longitudinal Study of Marital Problems and Subsequent Divorce
Journal of Marriage and the Family , volume 59 , issue 3 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
521,283
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies