Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Appendix of 'Blood in the Water: The Value of Antitakeover Provisions During Market Shocks'

35 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2021

Scott Guernsey

University of Tennessee

Simone M. Sepe

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Arizona - James E. Rogers College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); American College of Governance Counsel

Matthew Serfling

University of Tennessee; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

This internet appendix provides supplemental results as described in our paper "Blood in the Water: The Value of Antitakeover Provisions During Market Shocks", available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3716995

Keywords: Antitakeover provisions, Market shocks, Firm value, Takeover premiums, Relationship-specific investments

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Guernsey, Scott and Sepe, Simone M. and Serfling, Matthew, Internet Appendix of 'Blood in the Water: The Value of Antitakeover Provisions During Market Shocks' (December 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3990412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3990412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
749
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies