Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data Analysis with No Digital Footprints Available: Evidence from Cyber-Telecom Fraud

54 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2021

Laura Xiaolei Liu

Guanghua School of Management, Peking University

Yufei Liu

Peking University, Guanghua School of Management, Department of Finance, Students

Xinghua Ruan

Du Xiaoman Financial

Yu Zhang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: September 27, 2020

Abstract

Cyber-telecom fraud is an increasingly severe problem globally. We focus on a special type of cyber-telecom financial fraud, in which criminals induce innocent people to borrow online. Since no digital footprints are available for the fraudsters behind the borrowing cases, identifying the fraud is difficult. Using a proprietary dataset of online consumer financing from a large Fintech company in China, we estimate the extent to which an intervention based on big data and machine learning can identify this type of fraud and prevent customers’ financial losses. We find that female borrowers are more likely to become victims of fraud generally, that young and inexperienced users are more likely to become victim of fraud schemes targeting a lack of financial literacy, and that experienced and inexperienced users are equally likely to become victims of fraud schemes targeting overconfidence. Overall, the intervention effectively identifies fraud targeting either financial literacy or behavioral biases. However, it is more difficult to persuade victims of fraud targeting behavioral biases to change their behaviors.

Keywords: Fintech, big data, machine learning, cyber-telecom fraud, Internet finance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Laura Xiaolei and Liu, Yufei and Ruan, Xinghua and Zhang, Yu, Big Data Analysis with No Digital Footprints Available: Evidence from Cyber-Telecom Fraud (September 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3991369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3991369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Report on Trend of Cyber-Telecom Fraud Posted: 2020
Sumit Agarwal , John C Driscoll , Gabaix , Xavier , David Laibson
The age of reason: Financial decisions over the life cycle and implications for regulation
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 , p. 51 - 117 Posted: 2009
Sumit Agarwal , Wenlan Qian , Yuan Ren , Hsin-Tien Tsai , Bernard Yin Yeung
The Real Impact of FinTech: Evidence from Mobile Payment Technology Posted: 2020
John Ameriks , Andrew Caplin , John Leahy
Wealth Accumulation and the Propensity to Plan
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 1007 - 1047 Posted: 2003
Load more
1 Citations
Naveen Sirohi , Gaurav Misra
Vulnerability of individuals to economic crime and the role of financial literacy in its prevention: Evidence from India
Crime, Law and Social Change Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,225
RANK
366,257
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies