Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Value the Enterprise en route to Equity? Valuation Practice in M&A

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

46 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2021 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022

Matthew Shaffer

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Jason J. Lee

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: October 26, 2022

Abstract

In recent decades, M&A advisors have primarily and increasingly used enterprise value (EV) multiples in the valuations they provide to directors and shareholders as benchmarks for valuing their shares. This contrasts equity analysts, who predominantly use price (equity value) multiples, typically price-to-adjusted earnings, directly. We ask why. We find that M&A advisors’ use of EV multiples has less to do with capital structure, and more to do with income statement properties, than previously understood: M&A advisors respond to non-recurring special items by moving up the income statement, especially to EBITDA, as the value driver, which entails EV valuation for consistency. They rarely use explicitly “adjusted” bottom-line earnings measures, in this scrutinized setting. They use EBITDA multiples, which established conventional usage in M&A for other reasons, to achieve the same end, a smoother value driver. But using EBITDA multiples entails other, questionable, assumptions and complications. We explain variation in valuation practice and identify a novel manifestation of the non-GAAP phenomenon. And we contribute evidence relevant to standards, by showing how financial-statement users address non-recurring items in this institutional setting.

Keywords: M&A, Appraisal, Valuation, Accounting Multiples, Non-GAAP

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Shaffer, Matthew and Lee, Jason, Why Value the Enterprise en route to Equity? Valuation Practice in M&A (October 26, 2022). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3991357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3991357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Bao , A Edmans
Do Investment Banks Matter for M&A Returns?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 7 Posted: 2011
R Bartell , C Janssen
Defense of Fairness Opinions. Duff and Phelps White Paper Posted: 2017
M E Barth , I D Gow , D J Taylor
Why Do Pro Forma and Street Earnings Not Reflect Changes in GAAP? Evidence from SFAS 123R
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 3 Posted: 2012
L A Bebchuk , M Kahan
Fairness Opinions: How Fair Are They and What Can Be Done about It?
Duke Law Journal , volume 1989 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 53 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
901
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,431
RANK
60,564
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies