Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Capital Disclosure and Workforce Turnover

Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management Research Paper

52 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022 Last revised: 13 Jun 2025

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Peter H. Haslag

Vanderbilt University - Finance

Berk A. Sensoy

Vanderbilt University - Finance

Joshua T. White

Vanderbilt University - Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 17, 2022

Abstract

Human capital is a key driver of firm value, yet little is known about the timeliness and informativeness of workforce turnover disclosures. Using a proprietary dataset of over 8.6 million career histories combined with textual analysis of SEC filings, we examine how turnover disclosures reflect actual workforce dynamics. Firms adjust the intensity and tone of turnover disclosures in response to changes in employee flows, especially when they have predominantly high-skilled employees. This responsiveness suggests that the informative benefits of transparency often outweigh disclosure costs. We further analyze two SEC rule changes, a prescriptive 2005 risk-factor mandate and a principles-based 2020 human-capital amendment, and find both significantly increase turnover-related disclosures, especially among prior under-disclosers. However, the tone of disclosures diverges, becoming more cautionary under the 2005 rule and more positive under the 2020 rule. This highlights how regulatory design influences not just what firms disclose, but how they frame it. Overall, our findings offer new evidence on the informativeness of human capital disclosures and the role of disclosure policy in shaping workforce-related transparency.

Keywords: Human Capital Disclosure, Employee Turnover, Textual Analysis, SEC Regulation, Workforce Transparency

JEL Classification: G38, J60, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dey, Aiyesha and Haslag, Peter H. and Sensoy, Berk A. and White, Joshua T., Human Capital Disclosure and Workforce Turnover (September 17, 2022). Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3991257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3991257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A K Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information dispersion across employees and stock returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , p. 4785 - 4831 Posted: 2021
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , J Thewissen , W Torsin
Disclosure tone management and labor unions
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 48 , p. 102 - 147 Posted: 2021
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2022
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,795
RANK
29,515
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies