Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconsidering the Role of Internal Controls in the COVID-19 Era

The Institute for Internal Controls (IIC) e-Magazine 2021. Vol.2 Issue:2. pp.9-19. New Jersey, USA. https://online.fliphtml5.com/prsun/nxyq/

13 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Funda Kizil

Kızıl Şirketler Topluluğu

Burçin Dolaz

Istanbul Sabahattin Zaim University

Date Written: December 22, 2021

Abstract

The term internal controls has a variety of definitions. But generally speaking, internal controls is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance concerning the achievement of specific aims in effectiveness and efficiency of operations, relability of financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. Internal controls protects an organization. It also helps the organization to meet its targets. Internal controls is critical, since it minimizes the risks, protects assets, guarantees the accuracy of records and provides the motivation to staff to follow corporate policies (Michigan Technological University, 2021). Today, internal controls has been adopted and applied in both the public and private sectors. Therefore, the internal controls system is one of the main components of enterprises rather than being an extra application added to the organizations. Undoubtedly, internal controls system should be implemented when businesses are first established and should be improved gradually. The existence of an internal controls system has very positive results in a business. For this reason, the internal controls system is developing and progressing day by day in today's business world. (Sabuncu, 2017). Still, the distinction between internal controls and internal auditing is clear. Although many definitions also exist for the internal auditing, one of them is widely accepted. According to the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization’s operations. It assists an organization to reach its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and develop the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes (IIA, 2021). COVID-19, which manifested itself in 2019, has affected human life in every way, especially in health, education and business. During this period, many restrictions were imposed on the whole world. In this study, it is discussed what kind of regulations and changes the COVID-19 epidemic brought to the internal controls system. Controls in businesses are very important and critical. This paper argues that, internal controls is being reshaped and taking on a different character in the COVID-19 era. Controlling the operations, ensuring the reliabilities, running auditing and evaluating the risks via remote work include very comprehensive efforts. In this context, how to make the remote work effective and the advantages/disadvantages of the recent internal controls applications in the COVID-19 era are discussed. Finally, although the internal controls and internal auditing are not identical, specific implications are also made for the internal auditing since internal controls and internal auditing are interconnected.

Keywords: accounting, auditing, internal controls, internal auditing, COVID-19

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kizil, Cevdet and Kizil, Funda and Dolaz, Burçin, Reconsidering the Role of Internal Controls in the COVID-19 Era (December 22, 2021). The Institute for Internal Controls (IIC) e-Magazine 2021. Vol.2 Issue:2. pp.9-19. New Jersey, USA. https://online.fliphtml5.com/prsun/nxyq/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Acfe
Fraud in the Wake of Covid-19: Benchmarking Report. ACFE Website Posted: 2020
V Akman , İ Erarslan , C Kızıl
The Economical and Financial Impact of Covid-19 Epidemic on Migrant Labor Force. IV. International Kaoru Ishikawa Congress on Business Administration and Economy , p. 70 - 74 Posted: 2020-10-14
V Akman , C Kızıl
Non-Changing Patterns with the Covid-19 Epidemic: Re-Examining the Relationships and Business Conducting Structures through Globalization Process from the Perspective of Accounting and Finance
International Asian Congress on Contemporary Sciences -IV , p. 188 - 192 Posted: 2020-06
T Aksoy
Tüm Yönleriyle Denetim (All Aspects of Auditing) Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Yasemin Ertan , Elif Yücel , Samet Gezer
THE EFFECT OF DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS ON EMPLOYEES' PERCEPTIONS OF FRAUD DIMENSIONS IN REMOTE WORKING ENVIRONMENTS: THE CASE OF BURSA PROVINCE
Yönetim Bilimleri Dergisi , volume 23 , issue 57 , p. 1400 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,061
RANK
192,754
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies