Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Three Decades of Failed Bank Acquisitions

54 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021

Laima Spokeviciute

Cardiff University

Hossein Jahanshahloo

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Kevin Keasey

University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Francesco Vallascas

Durham University

Date Written: December 23, 2021

Abstract

Using 30 years of data on the acquisition of failed US commercial banks via Purchase and Assumption (P&A) transactions managed by the FDIC, and a matched-sample approach, we find long-term improvements in bank profitability, capital strength and portfolio risk for the combined entity. These effects are affected by the regulatory design of the resolution process and are aided by loan portfolio synergies between the target and the bidder and by a larger regulatory subsidy. Nevertheless, despite P&A transactions resulting in an effective redeployment of failed bank assets that is also beneficial for the local economy, they do not deliver generalized company performance benefits for the bidder shareholders.

Keywords: Bank Failure, Acquisitions, Resolution, Bank Risk

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G33

Suggested Citation:

Spokeviciute, Laima and Jahanshahloo, Hossein and Keasey, Kevin and Vallascas, Francesco, Three Decades of Failed Bank Acquisitions (December 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
V V Acharya , T Yorulmazer
Cash-in-the-Market Pricing and Optimal Resolution of Bank Failures
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 2705 - 2742 Posted: 2008
J Ang , N Mauck
Fire Sale Acquisitions: Myth vs. Reality
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 532 - 543 Posted: 2011
R L Bennett , H Unal
The Effects of Resolution Methods and Industry Stress on the Loss on Assets from Bank Failures
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 15 , p. 18 - 31 Posted: 2014
R L Bennett , H Unal
Understanding the Components of Bank Failure Resolution Costs
Financial Markets, Institutions and Instruments , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 349 - 389 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,071
RANK
403,165
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies