Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Origins of the Multinational Premium

FRB of Boston Working Paper No. 21-20

46 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021 Last revised: 18 Mar 2022

Jose L. Fillat

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston

Stefania Garetto

Boston University

Date Written: October, 2021

Abstract

How do foreign direct investment (FDI) dynamics relate to the risk premium of a firm? To answer this question, we compare the stock returns of US firms with different FDI and mergers and acquisitions (M&A) exposure to study the evolution of stock returns as firms expand into foreign markets. We document three empirical regularities. First, there are cross-sectional risk premia associated with both multinational activity and mergers and acquisitions. Second, firm-level stock returns decline when a firm undertakes M&A activity and with merger deepening. Third, future multinational acquirers already have higher stock returns compared with domestic non-acquirers prior to entering foreign markets, indicating that cross-sectional returns differentials are driven by selection based on common unobserved firm characteristics. We find that CEOs play a role in explaining the relationship between firms’ risk premia and foreign expansion. To rationalize these facts, we develop a dynamic model in which management attitudes shape the relationship between firm characteristics, selection into FDI, and risk premia.

Keywords: multinational firms, mergers and acquisitions, stock returns, management

JEL Classification: F12, F23, F36

Suggested Citation:

Fillat, Jose L. and Garetto, Stefania, On the Origins of the Multinational Premium (October, 2021). FRB of Boston Working Paper No. 21-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.29412/res.wp.2021.20
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
J M Arnold , B S Javorcik
Gifted kids or pushy parents? foreign direct investment and plant productivity in indonesia
Journal of International Economics , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 54 Posted: 2009
J.-N Barrot , E Loualiche , J Sauvagnat
The globalization risk premium
Journal of Finance , volume 74 , issue 5 , p. 2391 - 2439 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
741,762
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies