Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Whistleblowing Make Combating Cartels More Effective? – an Experimental Study

36 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2021

Christopher Spaeth

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sven Gruener

Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg

Abstract

Collusion by companies through cartels harms consumers by fixing prices and restricting output. To combat cartels, leniency programs are frequently used in the European Union (EU). Penalty is reduced for the company that reports the cartel, to the Antitrust Authorities first. The induced trust problem and the increased attractiveness for the individual company to deviate from the cartel agreement can lead to effective cartel deterrence. Besides leniency, incentive-based whistleblowing is another institutional innovation that could deter cartels, which, however, is still only rarely used in the EU. This paper presents an experimental examination of the efficacy of leniency and whistleblowing programs as well as the interaction of both. We find that in a protected environment, attaching whistleblowers to leniency programs has the potential to significantly reduce the willingness to cartelize, the size of established, and the rate of undetected cartels.

Keywords: Cartel, leniency, whistleblowing, Experimental economics

Suggested Citation:

Spaeth, Christopher and Gruener, Sven, Does Whistleblowing Make Combating Cartels More Effective? – an Experimental Study. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
K Abbink , K Wu
Reward self-reporting to deter corruption: An experiment on mitigating collusive bribery
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 133 , p. 256 - 272 Posted: 2017
M Andres , L Bruttel , J Friedrichsen
The leniency rule revisited: Experiments on cartel formation with open communication
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 76 Posted: 2021
J Apesteguia , M Dufwenberg , R Selten
Blowing the Whistle
Economic Theory , volume 31 , p. 143 - 166 Posted: 2007
J Baron , S Scott , K Fincher , S Emlen Metz
Why does the Cognitive Reflection Test (sometimes) predict utilitarian moral judgment (and other things
Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 284 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
RANK
791,953
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies