Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditors and Anti-Bullying Efforts in the Workplace

4 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2022

Mohamed Kais Adel Al GNBRI

The Libyan Academy for Postgraduate Studies

Date Written: May 18, 2020

Abstract

Bullying in the workplace is one of the risks that need to set certain controls and rules of behavior by the company's management, and it must also be evaluated by the company's risk management. All of these efforts need to be confirmed and verified by a party with some kind of independence and impartiality, the internal auditor. This means that internal auditors take on additional tasks to ensure that employees are not exposed to bullying in the workplace, so this research comes to identify the efforts of internal auditors in protecting employees from bullying in the workplace. The added value of the research is that it is the first scientific research to link internal auditing and workplace bullying.

Keywords: Auditing, internal audit, workplace bullying

Suggested Citation:

Al GNBRI, Mohamed Kais Adel, Internal Auditors and Anti-Bullying Efforts in the Workplace (May 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3993150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3993150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R F Fernando , D G Debora , N Pearce , G F Anaclaudia
Risk Factors for Workplace Bullying: A Systematic Review
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health , volume 16 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
 Government Of South Australia
Dealing with Workplace Bullying: A Practical Guide for Employees Posted: 2007
G Namie , R Namie , P Lutgen-Sandvik
Challenging Workplace Bullying in the USA: A Communication and Activist Perspective Posted: 2010
Sherri Gordon
The Effects of Workplace Bullying Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
495,993
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies