Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Committee Characteristics on Financial Restatements in Nigeria

Nigerian Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 12, Issue 1, 2020

22 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021 Last revised: 27 Dec 2022

Philip Jehu

Department of Accounting, Federal University Kashere, Gombe, Nigeria

Mohammad Azhar Ibrahim

TISSA School of Accountancy, Universiti Utara Malaysia, Malaysia

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the effect of audit committee attributes on the incidence of annual financial restatement. A sample of 96 firms (66 of which were restatement firms) was examined for the period 2008 to 2017 and controlled for firm size. Using a logit model regression analyses were carried out to test whether audit committee characteristics are effective in curbing the incidence of a financial restatement. The results indicate that audit committee independence is effective in curbing the likelihood of restatement. Similarly, the results also show that audit committee meeting frequency mitigates the likelihood of restatement. This study finds no cause to associate either audit committee size or audit committee financial expertise to restatement. The findings are robust for the average marginal effects. Notwithstanding, this study has some limitations. First, lack of variation in audit committee characteristics might affect the results. Second, the corporate governance data were hand-collected from the annual reports of listed firms downloaded from the website of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Third, this research outcome is based on a sample of 960 firm-year observations between 2008 to 2017. Future studies will find subsequent years more comprehensive with financial data available in the Thomson Reuters Eikon database. The findings underlie the regulatory action that strengthens the oversight function of audit committees in financial reporting. It affirms the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) of Nigeria’s position for a revised guideline to monitor reporting entities. A listed firm may leverage on its audit committee’s independence and meeting frequency profiles to send a signal to investors about its governance quality. This study contributes to the burgeoning literature on audit committee, by providing evidence from a West African reporting environment.

Keywords: Audit committee financial expertise, audit committee independence, audit committee meeting frequency, audit committee size, financial restatement.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jehu, Philip and Ibrahim, Mohammad Azhar, The Effect of Audit Committee Characteristics on Financial Restatements in Nigeria (June 1, 2020). Nigerian Journal of Accounting and Finance, Volume 12, Issue 1, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3993624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
389
RANK
662,989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies