Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Corporate Governance Literature in Malaysia: A Systematic Literature Review and Research Agenda

Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society, 2022

30 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

DF Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

S. A. Hazaea

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics; Al jazeera univerisity

Date Written: January 5, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This study provides a comprehensive review of the existing literature on corporate governance aspects of the Malaysian market. It offers insights into the phases of Malaysian corporate governance, identifies crucial gaps in the literature and outlines an agenda for impending research.

Design/methodology/approach: Following a systematic literature review approach, a final sample of 125 studies from Scopus and Web of Science databases were utilized in this study. These studies were selected based on quality assessment criteria. Then, the sample literature was evaluated in terms of journals, methodology, theories, modelling, research outcomes and corporate governance characteristics.

Findings: Our results show that there is a growing interest among researchers to further explore corporate governance aspects in Malaysia due to the continuous development of the Malaysian corporate governance codes. Likewise, the review reveals that the majority of prior studies are quantitative and were carried out utilizing archived data from non-financial firms. Also, the existing literature has primarily focused on the outcomes of corporate governance, especially firm performance.

Research limitations/implications: Overall, our results show that there is ample room for future research. The present paper identifies a number of methodological problems and concerns, and discusses the implications of these problems, while also providing recommendations for future research. The main caveat is that we use scholarly papers published in academic journals only, but this approach offers us with opportunities for considerable further developments.

Originality/value: This study contributes to the literature by being the first of its kind to concentrate on the Malaysian context. It provides a comprehensive knowledge assessment of the Malaysian corporate governance research and offers advice regarding improvements in research, policy and practice by identifying possible knowledge gaps. Consequently, our study provides a cohesive story of the past and a road map for future research on Malaysian corporate governance.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, firm performance, corporate social responsibility, earnings management, disclosure quality, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A. and Abdullah, Dewi Fariha and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Hazaea, Saddam A, The Development of Corporate Governance Literature in Malaysia: A Systematic Literature Review and Research Agenda (January 5, 2022). Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3993984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
151 References
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS Mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: the influence of family control and the value (ir)relevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015
S Abdullah , K N I Ku Ismail , L Nachum
Does Having Women on Boards Create Value? The Impact of Societal Perceptions and Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 466 - 476 Posted: 2014
S N Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performance among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
S N Abdullah
Board structure and ownership in Malaysia: The case of distressed listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 582 - 594 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,151
RANK
117,482
4 Citations
151 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies