Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Essential Businesses and Shareholder Value

University of Chicago Legal Forum, Vol. 2021

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 939

41 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2021 Last revised: 24 Oct 2024

Aneil Kovvali

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: December 25, 2021

Abstract

The COVID-19 crisis has demonstrated that Americans rely on certain for-profit corporations to supply the essentials of everyday life. Even though the government had assumed extraordinary responsibilities for the wellbeing of its citizens for the duration of the crisis, for-profit companies were deemed so essential to social functioning that workers were sent to keep them running despite the risk of infection with a deadly disease. If our society’s capacity to meet basic needs in a crisis is entirely dependent on the capacity of private corporations, it is necessary to critically evaluate the performance of the directors and officers who lead these companies, and to ask whether their pre-crisis decisions were made within an appropriate framework of incentives. Recent experience suggests good reasons to question whether our existing system of corporate governance has proven equal to the outsized role of key corporations. Various corporations were not prepared to operate safely at appropriate levels during a crisis, creating enormous economic and public health risks. These issues were at least plausibly caused by an over-emphasis on short-term profit maximization within a specific pre-crisis operating environment, and a failure to address the undiversifiable risks associated with a potential disruption. While external regulation and coordination by the government is a critical part of the solution to this problem, new corporate governance tools could play a valuable role in ensuring that directors and officers recognize and carry out a duty to build resilient organizations. This Article discusses one possible tool: a focused liability regime that would hold the directors and officers of corporations running essential businesses liable if they fail to prepare for crises.

Keywords: corporate governance, COVID-19, essential businesses, moral hazard, resilience, shareholder primacy, shareholder value maximization, stakeholder governance, consolidation, meat processing, hospital consolidation

JEL Classification: D02, D21, D40, D61, D70, D81, D92, E32, G38, I18, L21, L22, L40, L51, L66, P16

Suggested Citation:

Kovvali, Aneil, Essential Businesses and Shareholder Value (December 25, 2021). University of Chicago Legal Forum, Vol. 2021, University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 939, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3993775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3993775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Press Release, Governor Cuomo Signs the 'New York State on PAUSE' Executive Order Posted: 2020-03-20
See Shannon , Palus
EKZX] (noting that American rules restricting behavior were riddled with exceptions and generally not enforced, and contrasting with strict limitations imposed in other countries)
America Never Did a Real Lockdown Posted: 2020-11-25
Jacob Gershman , ; Lockdowns , J St
A Guide to State Coronavirus Reopenings and Posted: 2020-05-20
N Y See , Exec
, volume 202 Posted: 2020-03-18
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
RANK
347,387
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies