Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Misreaction? Leverage and Mergers and Acquisitions

44 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2021 Last revised: 24 Jan 2022

C. N. V. Krishnan

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Banking & Finance

Vasiliy Yakimenko

University of Georgia

Date Written: January 22, 2022

Abstract

Using a large database of mergers and acquisitions (M&As) announced from 2010 through 2017, we examine the effects of capital ratio (leverage) on the announcement period stock price reaction as well as on longer-term stock returns and performance, for banks, and compare with non-banks. We find that, for banks, a lower capital ratio of acquirers at the time of the announcement of the M&A is significantly associated with negative announcement-period abnormal returns. However, for these banks, the longer-run abnormal returns and performance are positive. The opposite is true for non-bank M&A announcements: higher equity ratios (lower leverage) of acquirers as at the time of announcement, is significantly associated with negative announcement period abnormal returns. But, for such non-banks, the longer-run abnormal returns and performance are positive. This shows that the market may mis-react, on average, to both bank and non-bank M&A announcements, based on the acquirer leverage at the time of announcement.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, M&A, Acquirer Leverage, Capital Ratio, Equity Ratio, Bank M&As, Non-bank M&As, Announcement Period Returns, Post-announcement Returns, Post M&A Performance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, C. N. V. and Yakimenko, Vasiliy, Market Misreaction? Leverage and Mergers and Acquisitions (January 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3994811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3994811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Aboody , O Even-Tov , J Zeng
What Drives Acquisition Premiums and Why do Targets Reject Offers? Evidence from Failed Acquisition Offers Posted: 2021
R Aggarwal , P Rivoli
Fads in the Initial Public Offering Market?
Financial Management , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 1990
K Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
RANK
424,948
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies