Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value versus Non-fair Value Discretion and Auditing

49 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2021

Bohan Song

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: August 30, 2020

Abstract

Managers have alternative discretionary choices. I exploit security-level disclosures in the insurance industry to examine auditors’ role in insurers’ choice between using two specific types of discretion to avoid other-than-temporary-impairment (OTTI) losses. Managers can avoid recognizing an OTTI loss on investment either by (1) using the discretion over fair value measurements to inflate fair values above amortized cost or (2) exercising the discretion over non-fair value related aspects of an OTTI assessment to argue that such decline of fair values is temporary. Employing within-security analyses, I find that insurers engaging Big 4 and leading auditors in the insurance industry are more (less) likely to use non-fair value (fair value) discretion to avoid OTTI losses. This effect is stronger when insurers have a greater OTTI avoidance incentive. I also document that, in the presence of these two types of auditors, insurers using non-fair value discretion to avoid OTTI are more likely to dispose of the security at a loss in the subsequent year. The results are consistent with these auditors having a comparative advantage in auditing fair value measurements versus non-fair value discretion due to their increased access to fair-value-related resources at the national level.


Keywords: other-than-temporary impairment; Big 4; industry-leading auditors; insurance companies; accounting choice

JEL Classification: G22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Song, Bohan, Fair Value versus Non-fair Value Discretion and Auditing (August 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3994999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3994999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Sophie Audousset-Coulier , Anne Jeny , Like Jiang
The Validity of Auditor Industry Specialization Measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Brad A Badertscher , J Jeffrey , Peter D Burks , Easton
The Market Pricing of Otherthan-Temporary Impairments
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 811 - 838 Posted: 2014
Samuel B Bonsall , Brian P Miller
The Impact of Narrative Disclosure Readability on Bond Ratings and the Cost of Debt
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 608 - 643 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,450
RANK
344,140
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies