Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Compensation in Stressed Banks: Evidence from the ECB's AQR Stress Test

34 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2022

Moritz Stieglitz

Deutsche Bundesbank; Halle Institute for Economic Research

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Bank compensation in distress is often regarded as special due to the prevalence of high bonus payments. I study European banks over the period 2014 to 2018 to determine how banks adjust compensation during distress in the post-crisis era. I use a novel hand-collected database to analyze compensation and employment of managerial employees at both the executive and non-executive level. Banks are classiffied as (un-)stressed based on the results of the ECB's 2014 stress test. As commonly observed for non-financial firms, distressed banks reduce overall wage expenses by reducing employment rather than cutting fixed or variable compensation. The convergence of bank behavior with that of non-financial firms might be due to post-crisis compensation regulation and bail-in rules.

Keywords: banks, compensation, bank distress

JEL Classification: G21, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Stieglitz, Moritz, Managerial Compensation in Stressed Banks: Evidence from the ECB's AQR Stress Test (March 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3994007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3994007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
P Abbassi , J.-L Peydro , R Iyer , P E Soto
Stressed banks? Evidence from the largest-ever supervisory review
Bundesbank Discussion Paper , issue 26 Posted: 2020
M Abbritti , S Fahr
Downward wage rigidity and business cycle asymmetries
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 60 , p. 871 - 886 Posted: 2013
V Acharya , M Pagano , P Volpin
Seeking alpha: Excess risk taking and competition for managerial talent
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 2565 - 2599 Posted: 2016
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
753,521
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies