Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Firm-level Political Risk Influence Earnings Management?




Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

51 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Narendra Kushwaha

Ahmedabad University

Xia Li

Aston University - Aston Business School

Tahera Ebrahimi

Manchester Metropolitan University

Date Written: December 26, 2021

Abstract

This study diverges from mixed findings in the literature on political uncertainty and earnings management by reporting a significant positive association between the firm-level political risk (FLPR) measure proposed by Hassan et al. (2019) and both accrual-based and real earnings management. This aligns with the predictions of agency theory and the political cost hypothesis, indicating that firms exposed to higher political risk are more prone to heightened earnings manipulation. Additionally, we find that in the face of increased political risk, firms tend to substitute accrual-based earnings management with real earnings management, which is relatively harder to detect. This study further identifies a non-linear 'U'-shaped association between FLPR and both accrual-based and real earnings management, suggesting significant manipulation at both low and high political risk levels, with the least manipulation at a moderate level. This non-linear association is primarily observed in firms that are smaller in size, pay lower abnormal compensation to their CEOs and are less likely to be monitored by lenders. Thus, emphasising the role of external monitoring mechanisms in driving the nonlinear association between FLPR and earnings management.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Political Risk, Corporate Governance, Nonliner, External Monitoring

JEL Classification: G30, D72, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Jairaj and Kushwaha, Narendra Nath and Li, Xia and Ebrahimi, Tahera, Does Firm-level Political Risk Influence Earnings Management? (December 26, 2021).
, Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3994064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3994064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
H A Abdou , N N Ellelly , A A Elamer , K Hussainey , H Yazdifar
Corporate governance and earnings management nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt using neural networks
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 6281 - 6311 Posted: 2021
D Acemoglu , S Naidu , P Restrepo , J A Robinson
Democracy does cause growth
Journal of Political Economy , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 100 Posted: 2019
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , V Ragunathan , R Tumarkin
Death by committee? An analysis of corporate board (sub-) committees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , issue 3 , p. 1119 - 1146 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,039
RANK
129,684
4 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies