Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of CEO Incentives on Deviations from Institutional Norms in Foreign Market Expansion Decisions: Behavioral Agency and Cross-Border Acquisitions

Human Resource Management, 59(5), 463-482. doi:10.1002/hrm.22006

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 1 Jan 2022

Mirko Benischke

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Geoffrey Martin

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Luis R. Gomez-Mejia

Arizona State University (ASU) - Management Department

Grigorij Ljubownikow

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

CEO incentives have been the subject of great interest for human resource scholars. We explore the institutional context within which the CEO makes sense of their incentives. Our theory suggests that CEO equity incentives interact with institutional norms to influence foreign market entry choices. Specifically, we argue that CEOs will weigh the risk bearing created by equity incentives, along with the consequences of legitimacy loss, when deciding whether to deviate from institutional norms when internationalizing. In doing so, we advance human resource literature by demonstrating that CEO responses to incentives are influenced by institutional norms and that CEOs' decisions to deviate from institutional norms are shaped by their incentives. We find support for our framework in the analysis of the stake taken by acquirers in 4,184 cross-border acquisitions.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1002/hrm.22006

Keywords: agency theory, CEO compensation, compensation and benefits, institutional theory

Suggested Citation:

Benischke, Mirko and Martin, Geoffrey and Gomez-Mejia, Luis R. and Ljubownikow, Grigorij, The Effect of CEO Incentives on Deviations from Institutional Norms in Foreign Market Expansion Decisions: Behavioral Agency and Cross-Border Acquisitions (2020). Human Resource Management, 59(5), 463-482. doi:10.1002/hrm.22006, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3994071
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies