Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Specialization in Securities’ Industries and Insurer’s Fair Value Reporting

50 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2021

Bohan Song

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Abstract

I examine the effect of auditors’ industry specialization at the asset level. Focusing on insurance companies whose assets comprise investment in financial securities across a wide range of industries, I provide initial evidence that audit firms’ specialization in a security’s industry is associated with a higher quality of the security’s fair value estimate. Cross-sectional tests indicate that the effect of security-level industry specialization is more pronounced for securities with higher estimation uncertainty, for securities from non-insurance industries, and when insurers inflate fair values. Security-level analyses with fixed effects bolster the identification, and a battery of robustness analyses further mitigate endogeneity concerns and address alternative explanations. In this study, I show a spillover effect of auditors’ industry specialization to clients operating in different industries.

Keywords: Asset-level Industry specialization, Fair Value Auditing, Insurance Companies, Spillover Effect

JEL Classification: G22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Song, Bohan, Auditor Specialization in Securities’ Industries and Insurer’s Fair Value Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3995003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3995003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Jennifer Altamuro , Haiwen Zhang
The Financial Reporting of Fair Value Based on Managerial Inputs versus Market Inputs: Evidence from Mortgage Servicing Rights
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 833 - 858 Posted: 2013
Sophie Audousset-Coulier , Anne Jeny , Like Jiang
The Validity of Auditor Industry Specialization Measures
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 2016
Gil S Bae , Uk Seung , Dan S Choi , Phillip T Dhaliwal , Lamoreaux
Auditors and Client Investment Efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
RANK
373,551
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies