Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Solving the Riddle of Ratification of Misappropriation of Company Property: A New Analogy

(2021) 15 Journal of Equity 233

32 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2021

Rosemary Teele Langford

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: November 27, 2021

Abstract

The ability of shareholders to authorise or ratify breach of directors’ duty is a complex topic, particularly in Australia due to an established line of cases that has restricted authorisation and ratification of breach of statutory duty. One category of cases where ratification has been denied at general law is where the breach involves misappropriation of company property. Cases in this category appear difficult to reconcile. However, an analogy with statutory proscriptions on improper use of position and of information from position has the potential to bring clarity to this category of cases and also helps explain when ratification by shareholders who are also directors will be ineffective, including in cases in which courts have denied ratification or authorisation of breach of statutory duty.

Keywords: directors' duties, fiduciary duties, company law, ratification, misappropriation, shareholders, involvement

JEL Classification: K10, K20

Suggested Citation:

Langford, Rosemary Teele, Solving the Riddle of Ratification of Misappropriation of Company Property: A New Analogy (November 27, 2021). (2021) 15 Journal of Equity 233, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3995692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3995692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
All ER , volume 1064
Edwards
Posted: 1950
All ER 1064 Posted: 1887
App Cas , volume 589
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,623
RANK
345,746
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies