Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cryptocurrencies on a bank’s balance sheet

23 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2021

Alexander Schopper

University of Innsbruck - Faculty of Law

Patrick Raschner

University of Innsbruck - Faculty of Law; European Banking Institute

Date Written: November 16, 2021

Abstract

More and more established companies are getting involved in the cryptomarket and/or considering cryptocurrencies as an alternative to cash. In addition, recently, El Salvador became the first country to declare Bitcoin as a legal tender. Against this background, this paper examines how holdings of cryptocurrencies on a bank’s balance sheet would be treated under EU banking law. After a brief consideration of the permissibility of investments in cryptocurrencies, the accounting under the International Financial Reporting Standards and the Bank Accounts Directive is explored. The analyses confirm that long-term holdings must be classified as intangible assets. Building on this, the prudential implications for credit institutions are assessed and, in particular, how banks must treat cryptocurrencies under the Capital Requirements Regulation. Because Bitcoin & Co qualify as intangibles under the applicable accounting rules, European institutions must fully deduct their holdings from the Common Equity Tier 1 capital. This outcome is compared with the recent consultation of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on crypto exposure.

Keywords: Cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin, Ether, Accounting, IFRS, IAS, Bank Accounts Directive, Credit Institution, CRR, Capital Requirements, CET1, Basel

JEL Classification: G21, G28, K22, K23, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Schopper, Alexander and Raschner, Patrick, Cryptocurrencies on a bank’s balance sheet (November 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3996307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3996307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
For the Austrian Banking Act Braunauer and Ewerz (n. 9) 936; on the CRR Sopp and Grünberger
Best and Read (n. 18) 30-33. The authors mentioned do not even address the permissibility, but rather discuss the accounting and prudential treatment right away
Bcbs See
Designing a prudential treatment for crypto-assets' Discussion Paper , volume 9 Posted: 2019-12
Bcbs See , Consultative Document
, volume 8
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
94,244
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies