Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Dynamic Inefficiency in the Presence of Corporate Social Responsibility and Input Indivisibilities

Expert Systems with Applications, 2021, Vol. 176, 114849

34 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2022 Last revised: 2 Nov 2022

Magdalena Kapelko

Wroclaw University of Economics and Business, Department of Logistics

Alfons G. J. M. Oude Lansink

Wageningen University

Spiro E. Stefanou

Food & Resource Economics; Business Economics Group

Date Written: August 06, 2020

Abstract

This article proposes a model for evaluating inefficiency accounting for firms’ corporate social responsibility engagement as part of their broader output production activities. The model combines the production of marketable outputs, socially responsible outputs, and undesirable outputs into overall measures of firm performance using data envelopment approaches. Methodologically, the article builds on the dynamic by-production model, which accounts for adjustment costs related with investments, allowing for non-convexities of the production set and input indivisibility, as well as firm corporate social responsibility activities. This study compares dynamic technical inefficiency scores for each input, output, and investment, estimated assuming the presence of input indivisibility (non-convexity) and its absence (convexity). The empirical application focuses on European firms in three industries (offering capital, consumption, and other goods) for the period 2010–2017. The results show significant differences between inefficiencies with and without the convexity assumption and find evidence for non-convexity of firms’ production set and inputs’ indivisibility. Overall, among all outputs, the results reveal the highest inefficiency in the production of socially responsible outputs.

Keywords: data envelopment analysis, non-convexity, corporate social responsibility, undesirable outputs.

Suggested Citation:

Kapelko, Magdalena and Oude Lansink, Alfons G. J. M. and Stefanou, Spiro E., Measuring Dynamic Inefficiency in the Presence of Corporate Social Responsibility and Input Indivisibilities (August 06, 2020). Expert Systems with Applications, 2021, Vol. 176, 114849 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3997326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3997326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
F Ang , A Oude Lansink
Decomposing dynamic profit inefficiency of Belgian dairy farms
European Review of Agricultural Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 99 Posted: 2017
J Aparicio , M Kapelko
Accounting for slacks to measure dynamic inefficiency in data envelopment analysis
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 278 , issue 2 , p. 463 - 471 Posted: 2019
B R Auer
Do socially responsible investment policies add or destroy European stock portfolio value
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 135 , issue 2 , p. 381 - 397 Posted: 2016
B R Auer , F Schuhmacher
Do socially (ir) responsible investments pay? New evidence from international ESG data
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 59 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
RANK
872,402
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies