Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Dynamic Productivity Change in the US Food and Beverage Manufacturing Industry

Agribusiness, 2021, Vol. 37, Issue 2, 286-305

32 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2022 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022

Magdalena Kapelko

Wroclaw University of Economics and Business, Department of Logistics

Alfons G. J. M. Oude Lansink

Wageningen University

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Date Written: February 27, 2020

Abstract

This work examines the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and dynamic productivity change of each input employed and investment undertaken in the United States food and beverage manufacturing industry. We compute input- and investment-specific dynamic Luenberger indicators and decompose them into the contributions of input- and investment-specific dynamic technical inefficiency changes and dynamic technological changes. We then relate these indicators to an overall CSR measure and aspect-specific CSR measures (governance, environment, and social). Our results confirm that the association between CSR and productivity change has different signs and effects on specific inputs or investments. We also find that only certain aspects of CSR participate in the association between CSR and dynamic productivity change and its components.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Input- and investment-specific dynamic productivity change, Data Envelopment Analysis, Food and beverage manufacturing industry

JEL Classification: C61, D24, L66, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kapelko, Magdalena and Oude Lansink, Alfons G. J. M. and Guillamon Saorin, Encarna, Corporate Social Responsibility and Dynamic Productivity Change in the US Food and Beverage Manufacturing Industry (February 27, 2020). Agribusiness, 2021, Vol. 37, Issue 2, 286-305, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3997349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
M R M Abrigo , I Love
Estimation of panel vector autoregression in STATA
Stata Journal , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 778 - 804 Posted: 2016
H Akaike
Fitting autoregressive models for prediction
Annals of the Institute of Statistical Mathematics , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 243 - 247 Posted: 1969
J Antonakis , S Bendahan , P Jacquart , R Lalive
On making causal claims: A review and recommendations. The Leadership Quarterly , volume 21 , p. 1086 - 1120 Posted: 2010
K Aupperle , A Carroll , J Hartfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
527
RANK
702,914
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies