Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption Costs and Corporate Disclosure of Customers: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in China

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

47 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2022 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Wei Jiang

Renmin University of China

Wentao Yao

Xiamen University - School of Management

Hong Zou

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine the effect of corruption costs on corporate disclosure of major customers. Using a panel data set for Chinese listed firms over the period 2009-2017 and difference-in-differences estimations, we find that firms with more potential sales-related corruptions respond to the Chinese anti-corruption campaign by reducing the disclosure about their customers’ identities. These results are stronger in firms that are prone to sales-related corruptions: those selling more to industries dominated by SOEs, firms being inactive in innovation before the campaign, or firms operating in regions with poor business environment. Overall, hiding potential sales-related corruptions when the detection risk is heightened appears an important consideration for firms to change their customer disclosure policy. Finally, we provide evidence that firms that reduce the customer identity disclosure appear to benefit from receiving less negative media coverage in the campaign period.

Keywords: Corporate corruption, anti-corruption, supply chain, customers, media coverage

JEL Classification: G30, M41, L14

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Wei and Yao, Wentao and Zou, Hong, Corruption Costs and Corporate Disclosure of Customers: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in China (August 1, 2020). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3997631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3997631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock options awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 18 Posted: 2000
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
The value of local political connections in a lowcorruption environment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 402 Posted: 2013
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
RANK
315,603
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies