Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Budgeting and Spending during COVID–19 in Oman: A Humanitarian Response to the Pandemic

Finance Research Letters, 2022

Posted: 4 Jan 2022 Last revised: 13 Jan 2022

Saeed Rabea Baatwah

Shaqra University; Seiyun University

Adel Al-Qadasi

Shaqra University

Amer Al-Shehri

King Khalid University

Imen Derouiche

University of Luxembourg, unité de recherche CREA

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

COVID-19 is causing economic panic among people, governments, and businesses, requiring greater corporate social responsibility (CSR). Using a sample of Omani-listed firms, this study shows that CSR budgeting and spending have increased considerably during the pandemic. It also shows that CSR budgeting is positively affected by the increase in COVID-19 deaths. CSR spending increases with the number of COVID-19 confirmed and fatal cases. These findings suggest that firms resort to CSR to reduce the negative consequences of the pandemic.

Keywords: COVID-19; Corporate social responsibility (CSR); CSR budgeting; CSR spending; Oman

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Baatwah, Saeed Rabea and Al-Qadasi, Adel and Al-Shehri, Amer and Derouiche, Imen, Corporate Social Responsibility Budgeting and Spending during COVID–19 in Oman: A Humanitarian Response to the Pandemic (December 31, 2021). Finance Research Letters, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3997885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3997885
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
692
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies