Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brand Capital and Corporate Dividend Payout Policies

Posted: 2 Mar 2022

Akinloye Akindayomi

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Akinyemi Omoge

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Date Written: January 2, 2022

Abstract

We examine the relation between a firm’s brand capital and its dividend payout policy. Investors tend to consider several variables when purchasing a firm’s stock. Irrespective of the investor’s incentive to buy a company’s stock (dividend-paying versus capital gains stock), the dividend-paying status of a firm is central to meeting the investor’s payoff expectations (dividend versus capital gains). Brand capital is a strategic investment in a firm’s intangible asset; the returns therefrom (or lack thereof) have cash flow and earnings implications. Where positive, such Brand Capital returns can generate resources for the firm to make a dividend and other corporate distributions. We hypothesis and find a relation between a firm’s brand capital and its dividend payout policy. Such a relation prevails even after controlling for the firm’s corporate governance, financial opacity, earnings volatility, share repurchases, tax status, and financial covenants measures.

Keywords: Brand Capital, Dividend, Financial Covenant, Earnings Volatility

JEL Classification: G30, M00, M41

Suggested Citation:

Akindayomi, Akinloye and Omoge, Akinyemi, Brand Capital and Corporate Dividend Payout Policies (January 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3998718
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies