Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letters on Mutual Fund Disclosures

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3998042

56 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 14 Aug 2025

Chengfeng Du

University of Massachusetts Lowell - Department of Accounting

Kai Du

Pennsylvania State University

Shuyang Wang

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Zhe Wang

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 01, 2021

Abstract

We study whether SEC comment letters help improve mutual fund disclosures. We find that funds respond to comment letters by providing more discussions about risk and uncertainty and adopting a more negative tone. Funds pay higher audit fees, potentially due to auditors’ involvement in the process. Comment letters are initially associated with negative abnormal fund flows that are reversed in the following quarter. After comment letters, fund flows respond less positively to fund performance and less negatively to expenses and risk disclosures, consistent with investors perceiving less agency frictions in fund reporting. Lastly, receiving comment letters reduces the likelihood of future SEC enforcement actions when they are initiated through administrative proceedings, and when comment letters address the same issue as a potential enforcement action. Overall, our findings suggest that SEC comment letters help improve mutual fund disclosures and influence investors’ perceptions of the quality of such disclosures. 

Keywords: mutual fund disclosure, SEC comment letter, fund flow, enforcement

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Du, Chengfeng and Du, Kai and Wang, Shuyang and Wang, Zhe, SEC Comment Letters on Mutual Fund Disclosures (October 01, 2021). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 3998042, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3998042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3998042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Abis , A Lines
Broken promises, competition, and capital allocation in the mutual fund industry
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 162 Posted: 2024
V Agarwal , G D Gay , L Ling
Window dressing in mutual funds
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 11 , p. 3133 - 3170 Posted: 2014
G J Alexander , J D Jones , P J Nigro
Mutual fund shareholders: Characteristics, investor knowledge, and sources of information
Financial Services Review , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 301 - 316 Posted: 1998
B M Barber , X Huang , T Odean
Which factors matter to investors? Evidence from mutual fund flows
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 10 , p. 2600 - 2642 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
161,184
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies