Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Peers and Corporate Reporting Behavior

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2022 Last revised: 19 Dec 2023

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Nargess Golshan

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: January 3, 2022

Abstract

We find that firms exhibit greater earnings similarity when compared to industry peers in the same city, as the number of local peers increases. This is due to the potential adverse consequences of underperforming relative to local peers. As the number of local peers increases, there is increased local competition, which creates pressure to perform as well as competitors. Firms respond to this pressure by exhibiting earnings similarity to meet market expectations and to take advantage of external financing and growth opportunities. However, we show that this mimicking behavior creates a false similarity and is achieved by firms reporting higher levels of unexpected accruals. This is consistent with the idea that mimicking allows firms to maintain their relative performance with local rivals. These results continue to hold for a sample of firms that move to a location with a higher number of local peers than their initial location. We also find that firms in cities with more peers have a greater likelihood of earnings misstatements. In cross-sectional analyses, the adverse effect of more local peers on earnings quality is stronger for firms with greater market attention, where external financing dependence is higher, and among firms in locations with more growth opportunities. Overall, our evidence points to geographic proximity as a key mechanism in a firm’s reporting behavior in that firms mimic to produce a false similarity in earnings that is achieved through accruals management.

Keywords: Local industry peers, Accounting similarity, Earnings quality

JEL Classification: G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R. and Golshan, Nargess and Khurana, Inder, Local Peers and Corporate Reporting Behavior (January 3, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3999449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3999449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
A Almazan , A De Motta , S Titman , V Uysal
Financial structure, acquisition opportunities, and firm locations
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 529 - 563 Posted: 2010
D Audretsch , M Feldman
R&D spillovers and the geography of innovation and production
American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 630 - 652 Posted: 1996
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Product market competition and financial accounting misreporting Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
RANK
279,521
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies