Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Consequences of Interim CFO Appointments

57 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022 Last revised: 9 Jun 2022

Jason Bangert

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

E. Scott Johnson

Vanderbilt University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: June 2022

Abstract

Although some view the hiring of interim executives as evidence of poor governance, this practice represents 15 to 20 percent of all chief financial officer (CFO) appointments. We examine the determinants and consequences of interim CFO successions. We find that smaller and poorer performing firms are more likely to appoint interim CFOs, as are firms with lower financial reporting quality and those faced with unexpected CFO departures. We also find that market participants respond negatively to interim CFO appointments. Although interim CFOs are associated with higher income-increasing earnings management and underinvestment, on average, interim CFO firms with strong corporate governance do not exhibit significant earnings management. Finally, permanent CFOs appointed following interim CFOs achieve greater profitability and are less likely to underinvest. Our study provides valuable insights for directors, management teams, auditors, investors, and researchers regarding the near- and long-term effects of appointing interim CFOs.

Keywords: executive succession, interim CFOs, chief financial officers, financial reporting quality, strategic decision making, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bangert, Jason and Johnson, E. Scott and Myers, Linda A. and Schmardebeck, Roy, The Determinants and Consequences of Interim CFO Appointments (June 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4000780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4000780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
M K Ahn , J H Joo
What determines the voluntary disclosure of CEO succession planning? Korean Accounting Review Posted: 2021
R Alsop , J J Cannon , Iii , D E Lilienfeld
Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance Posted: 2020
P G Badolato , D C Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
RANK
245,414
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies