Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Regulatory Comment Letters: Evidence from Iran

Spanish Accounting Review 2022, doi: 10.6018/rcsar.398611

Posted: 8 Feb 2022

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Date Written: January 4, 2022

Abstract

Securities commissions regularly review corporate reports, and if the review reveals a possible deficiency— such as a potential accounting error— or requires further clarifications, they send the company a comment letter (CL), including a request for providing written responses and relative additional information. Current study aims to examine whether and how corporate social responsibility (CSR) affects CLs. This empirical study is based on a sample of 437 Iranian firm year observations from 2011 to 2017. Results show that firms with more CSR are less likely to receive CL, that more CSR does not influence the association of managerial misbehavior and CLs, and that the negative association between CSR and CLs is stronger among firms facing higher environmental information asymmetry and firms having higher corporate governance quality. Collectively, this paper contributes to the literature by providing new evidence on the beneficial effect of CSR in the context of CLs.

Keywords: CSR, Oversight, Comment letter, Spillover effect, Managers, Emerging markets

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M48, Q01, Q38, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Hesarzadeh, Reza, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Regulatory Comment Letters: Evidence from Iran (January 4, 2022). Spanish Accounting Review 2022, doi: 10.6018/rcsar.398611 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4000202
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies