Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Literature Review on the Dual Effect of Corporate Tax Planning and Managerial Power on Executive Compensation Structure

Accounting Perspectives, Volume 21, Issue 2: 387-423

Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Andrea Stapleton

Memorial University of Newfoundland; University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 3, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we review the extant literature on factors affecting the level and structure of executive compensation, with a specific focus on the power dynamic between firms and their executives. In doing so, we explore the competing effect of corporate tax planning and managerial power on executive compensation structure. We consider the theoretical underpinnings and related empirical findings regarding executive compensation structure and propose new avenues for future research that may deepen our understanding of factors influencing executive compensation structure.

Keywords: Corporate tax planning, executive compensation, managerial power, compensation structure

JEL Classification: H20, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Stapleton, Andrea, A Literature Review on the Dual Effect of Corporate Tax Planning and Managerial Power on Executive Compensation Structure (November 3, 2021). Accounting Perspectives, Volume 21, Issue 2: 387-423, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4000792
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
173
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies