Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Accounting and Reporting in Kenya

10 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022

Paul Mbalu

Technical University of Mombasa

Charles Guandaru Kamau

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: January 4, 2022

Abstract

The paper aims to scrutinize the current issues in sustainability accounting research, the pillars of corporate social responsibility and accounting, and to assess the subsequent trends of sustainability accounting and reporting. The research reviewed recent literature in sustainability accounting. Appraisal of current literature leads to the conclusion that integrating considerations of the environment in financial appraisals and new investments decisions leads to friendly environment; there is constant increase in influence of CSR on development of accounting in financial as well as management; It is very important to adequately allocate environmental costs to facilitate operations. Corporate Sustainability Accounting and Reporting has three main pillars: economic, environmental, and social, which has been discussed as Environmental Investment Evaluation, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Costs in this paper. The paper also discusses the current trends in compliance with environmental laws as well as the benefits that accrue with Corporate Sustainability Accounting and Reporting.

Keywords: Sustainability accounting, economic viability, social responsibility, environmental responsibility, climate crisis

JEL Classification: M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Mbalu, Paul and Kamau, Charles Guandaru, Corporate Sustainability Accounting and Reporting in Kenya (January 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4000715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4000715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Acca
Report Summary: The State of CSR in Malaysia
ACCA Malaysia Sdn. Bhd , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2014
R Burritt
Environmental Management Accounting: Roadblocks on the Way to the Green and Pleasant Land
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 13 - 32 Posted: 2004
C Deegan
Introduction. The Legitimising Effect of Social and Environment Disclosures -A Theoretical Foundation
Journal of accounting , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 311 Posted: 2012
V Dion , J Rui
Environmental disclosure determinants in Dutch listed companies. Environmental disclosure determinants , volume 25 , p. 60 - 78 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
12,939
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies