Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers of Service Firms

6 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2022

Charu Agarwal

University of Illinois - Urbana Champaign

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

The paper presents the theoretical framework explaining the primary cause of mergers of the service-oriented firms. Using the example of equity analyst firms, I analyze the motivation behind these mergers. The analysis is not limited to the aforementioned type of firms and could be extended to other high-skill service-offering firms with similar characteristics (e.g., market consultants, business advisory, strategy consultant). Most of the service firms have a steady pool of client firms acquired over the years. I propose that service firms can benefit from the mergers when they expect the performance of its long-term client firms to fall in the future and the acquisition of new clients (after accounting for acquisition cost) cannot compensate for the expected drop in revenues from the existing clients. The paper also presents the empirical models to test the rationale mentioned herein.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Service Firms, Accounting Disclosures, Market Analysts

JEL Classification: D8, G34, G14, M4

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Charu, Mergers of Service Firms (January 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4000647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4000647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
George A Akerlof
The Markets for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Hayne E Leland , David H Pyle
Information Asymmetries, Financial Structure, and Financial Intermediation
Journal of Finance , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 387 Posted: 1977
Anjan V Thakor , Ram T S Ramakrishnan
Information Reliability and a Theory of Financial Intermediation
Review of Economic Studies , p. 415 - 432 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies