Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Reforms and Earnings Management

Posted: 28 Feb 2022

Abongeh A. Tunyi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Machokoto

University of the Witwatersrand; African Development Bank Group (AfDB)

Daniel Gyimah

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: January 5, 2021

Abstract

We examine the role of major corporate board reforms around the world in constraining earnings management. Using a large sample of 7,569 listed firms from 19 countries and a difference-in-difference design, we find that board reforms constrain firms' accrual earnings management. However, in response, firms increase their levels of real earnings management, particularly through the reduction of discretionary expenses such as investments in R&D, to address short term earnings pressures. Consequently, specific board reform features (i.e., board independence and rule-based regulations) and external institutions that actively curb accrual earnings management also induce real earnings management. Overall, our evidence suggests that firms with incentives to manage earnings resort to more costly real earnings management when their ability to manipulate accruals is externally constrained. These results have important implications for governance regulation around the world as they contrast with the budding literature suggesting that reforms almost always lead to positive outcomes.

Keywords: Board reforms, real earnings management, accrual earnings management, corporate governance, institutions

Suggested Citation:

Tunyi, Abongeh A. and Machokoto, Michael and Gyimah, Daniel, Board Reforms and Earnings Management (January 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4001675
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies