Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distributed Ledger Technology and the Securities Markets of the Future: A Stakeholder Survey

Columbia Business Law Review, Vol. 2021, No. 2, 2021

Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 12 Jan 2022

Merritt B. Fox

Columbia University - Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lawrence R. Glosten

Columbia University

Edward Greene

Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP

Sue S. Guan

Santa Clara University - School of Law

Date Written: July 15, 2021

Abstract

This Article evaluates the implications of distributed ledger technology (DLT) for the securities markets of the future and their regulation. DLT is an integral part of the larger revolution in computing, communication and data storage capacity that has transformed securities markets over the last few decades and promises further radical change in the years to come. The potential of DLT, if it can be realized, could improve the functioning of our securities markets while at the same time sharply reducing costs. Based on an interview survey of about 100 persons who play prominent roles in actually making these markets work or in regulating them, this Article reports on the most important topics and themes that have emerged from the wide range of interviewees’ opinions about the extent to which DLT will affect the future of securities markets and their regulation. A significant number saw the potential for DLT to transform securities markets and market structure, from the possibility of stock trading on DLT to the potential impact on intermediaries, the ordinary retail investor, and on preventing wrongdoing in the stock market. However, key questions remain about implementation and the appetite for making DLT-based changes among both market participants and regulators.

Keywords: distributed ledger technology, blockchain, bitcoin, securities regulation, survey

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Merritt B. and Glosten, Lawrence R. and Greene, Edward and Guan, Sue, Distributed Ledger Technology and the Securities Markets of the Future: A Stakeholder Survey (July 15, 2021). Columbia Business Law Review, Vol. 2021, No. 2, 2021, Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4002689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E G See , Gilles Zumbach
32 For more information, see Order Disapproving Proposed Rule Change, as Modified by Amendment No. 1, To Adopt Rules Governing the Trading of Equity Securities on the Exchange Through a Facility of the Exchange Known as the Boston Security Token Exchange LLC , volume 441 Posted: 2004-12-28
Btsx About , Bos Sec , Token Exch
Letter from Benjamin Connault Posted: 2019
The See , Fin , Crisis , The Comm'n , Financial
CRISIS INQUIRY REPORT , volume 228 , p. 298 - 301 Posted: 2011
E G See , Dolgopolov Stanislav
Wholesaling Best Execution: How Entangled Are Off-Exchange Market Makers, 11 VA. L. &
BUS. REV , volume 149 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,094
RANK
359,199
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies