Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conditional Control: The Consequences of Expanding Creditors’ Right to Initiate Bankruptcy

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 811/2022

83 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022 Last revised: 3 May 2024

Assaf Hamdani

Tel Aviv University; Buchman Faculty of Law; Coller School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yevgeny Mugerman

Bar Ilan University

Ruth Rooz

Hebrew University

Nadav Steinberg

Bank of Israel - Research Department

Yishay Yafeh

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 4, 2022

Abstract

We study the effects of a court decision granting creditors the power to force into bankruptcy corporate debtors whose liabilities exceed their assets even if they are current on their payments. We find that bond prices responded positively to the court ruling, perhaps because of expectations that early resolutions of future cases of financial distress would benefit creditors. We also find that firms affected by the court ruling did not reduce their risk, but increased their reported net worth through equity injections and aggressive accounting. As a result, the informativeness of these firms’ financial statements decreased. Although it may well be the case that the overall effect of the court ruling on social welfare was positive, we argue that empowering creditors to force firms into bankruptcy using a balance sheet test for insolvency may involve adverse effects, increasing borrowers’ incentives to present biased financial statements.

Keywords: Creditor Rights, Financial Distress, Bankruptcy, Aggressive Accounting, Informativeness

JEL Classification: G30, G33, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hamdani, Assaf and Mugerman, Yevgeny and Rooz, Ruth and Steinberg, Nadav and Yafeh, Yishay, Conditional Control: The Consequences of Expanding Creditors’ Right to Initiate Bankruptcy (September 4, 2022). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 811/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4002641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4002641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M M Abudy , A Wohl
Corporate Bond Trading on a Limit Order Book Exchange
Review of Finance , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 1413 - 1440 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor Rights and Corporate Risktaking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
A Agrawal , J Gonzales-Uribe , J Martínez-Correa
Measuring the Ex-Ante Incentive Effects of Creditor Control Rights during Bankruptcy Reorganization
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 1 , p. 381 - 408 Posted: 2022
C Aghamolla , N Li
Debt Contract Enforcement and Conservatism: Evidence from a Natural Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1383 - 1416 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
RANK
293,623
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies