Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board interlock networks and informed short sales

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 98, 2019

47 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Shijun Cheng

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF), Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Yijiang Zhao

American University - Kogod School of Business

Date Written: November 6, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the association between informed short selling and a firm’s position in the board interlock network formed by shared directors. We find that better-connected firms experience higher levels of informed short selling and that this association is driven by both eigenvector centrality (a measure that accounts for both the quantity and quality of firms’ ties) and betweenness centrality (a measure of the extent to which firms serve as information intermediaries), not by degree centrality (a measure that only counts the quantity of their ties) in interlock networks. In addition, the positive association between interlock centrality and informed trading is more pronounced for firms whose directors have more opportunities to interact with directors of external firms in the network, consistent with director information leakage serving as a plausible underlying channel. Our further tests do not support an alternative interpretation based on short sellers’ superior processing of public information. Our findings have policy implications for regulators and professional director associations.

Keywords: board interlock networks, centrality, director information leakage, short sales

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Shijun and Felix, Robert and Zhao, Yijiang, Board interlock networks and informed short sales (November 6, 2018). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 98, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4002719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
F Akbas , F Meschke , M B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
N Ambady , M Weisbuch , S T Fiske , D T Gilbert , ; , G Lindzey
Nonverbal behavior
Handbook of Social Psychology , volume 1 Posted: 2010
R C Anderson , D M Reeb , W Zhao
Family controlled firms and informed trading: Evidence from Short Sales
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 351 - 385 Posted: 2012
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker
Discussion of 'The Impact of the Options Backdating Scandal on Shareholders' and 'Taxes and the backdating of stock option exercise date
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , p. 50 - 58 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
772,295
5 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies