Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overvaluation, Diminishing Profitability, and Acquisitions

33 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Donghun Kim

Georgia College & State University - Department of Economics and Finance

Jiyoon Lee

Yonsei University

Micah S. Officer

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 7, 2022

Abstract

We find that a firm is more likely to engage in acquisitions when its private information, measured by changes in purchase obligations, predicts that future profitability will fall and thus that its shares are overvalued in the current stock market. Overvalued acquirers are as likely to pay with stock as non-overvalued acquirers, suggesting that these firms do not necessarily take advantage of overvalued stock. Such acquisitions are followed by increases in profitability and generate positive announcement returns that are similar in magnitude to those generated by non-overvalued acquirers. In addition, bidding-period returns on overvalued acquirers are higher than those on similarly overvalued non-acquirers. Being an overvalued acquirer is not associated with executive compensation structure or ownership, suggesting that these acquisitions are less likely to be driven by managers' private incentives. The results suggest overall that managers engage in acquisitions to boost profitability when their private information predicts diminishing profitability rather than to take advantage of overvaluation and that such acquisitions benefit shareholders.

Keywords: Overvaluation, Information Asymmetry, M&A, Profitability

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Donghun and Lee, Jiyoon and Officer, Micah S., Overvaluation, Diminishing Profitability, and Acquisitions (January 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4003565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
James S Ang , Yingmei Cheng
Direct evidence on the market-driven acquisition theory
Journal of Financial Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 199 - 216 Posted: 2006
Lucian Bebchuk , Alma Cohen , Allen Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
The Review of financial studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
De Bodt , Jean-Gabriel Eric , Richard Cousin , Roll
Full-stock-payment marginalization in merger and acquisition transactions
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 760 - 783 Posted: 2018
Ming Dong , David Hirshleifer , Scott Richardson , Siew Hong , Teoh
Does investor misvaluation drive the takeover market?
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 725 - 762 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,912
RANK
439,204
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies