Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings management and audit quality: stakeholders’ perceptions

Barghathi, Y., Collison, D. and Crawford, L., 2018. Earnings management and audit quality: stakeholders’ perceptions. Journal of Management and Governance, 22(3), pp.629-659.

31 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Yasser Barghathi

Zayed University - College of Business

David Collison

University of Dundee - Department of Accountancy & Business Finance

Louise Crawford

Robert Gordon University - Aberdeen Business School

Date Written: January 8, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the perceptions of Libyan Commercial Banks’ (LCBs) stakeholders regarding the role of the external auditor in relation to earnings management (EM). A total of 28 semi-structured interviews were carried out with a range of LCB stakeholders comprising preparers of financial statements, users, regulators and academics. A questionnaire survey of stakeholders which yielded 102 Responses (response rate 53%) was also carried out. A variety of views were held which varied to some extent according to stakeholder group. A widely held perception amongst interviewees was that the auditor has the ability to detect EM practices but may not be able to prevent it. However questionnaire respondents were, in aggregate, more confident of the auditor’s ability to deter EM due to the influence of the audit report. The paper provides insights into stakeholders’ perceptions of the quality of bank audits. The findings are of particular relevance to regulators, and specifically, the Central Bank of Libya. Perceptions of audit quality raise questions about its guidance and regulations especially in connection with audit firm rotation. Perceptions of audit quality, and therefore, of the credibility of financial statements should be of interest to all stakeholders. The importance of the banking sector for society has been amply demonstrated in recent years. A well functioning audit function is a key component of its regulation. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to examine issues related to banks’ audit quality and audit firm rotation in Libya.

Suggested Citation:

Barghathi, Yasser and Collison, David J. and Crawford, Louise, Earnings management and audit quality: stakeholders’ perceptions (January 8, 2022). Barghathi, Y., Collison, D. and Crawford, L., 2018. Earnings management and audit quality: stakeholders’ perceptions. Journal of Management and Governance, 22(3), pp.629-659., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
N S Ahmad , S S Gao
Changes, problems and challenges of accounting education in Libya
Accounting Education , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 390 Posted: 2004
M Akers , D E Giacomino , J L Bellovary
Earnings management and its implications
The CPA Journal , volume 77 , p. 64 - 69 Posted: 2007
A Anis
Auditors' perceptions of audit firm rotation impact on audit quality in Egypt
Accounting & Taxation , issue 6 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 2014
A Ascioglu , S Hegde , G Krishnan , J Mcdermott
Earnings management and market liquidity. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 38 , p. 257 - 274 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
357,435
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies