Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effects of Accounting Scandals in Business Groups

Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 21 Oct 2022

Guilong Cai

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Rui Ge

Shenzhen University & Audencia Business School

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Leon Zolotoy

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Date Written: January 7, 2022

Abstract

We show that the revelation of an accounting scandal in a member firm induces stock price declines among other member firms in the same business group. Additional evidence suggests that the spillover effects of accounting scandals are amplified when peer member firms exhibit wider deviation between the ultimate controller’s voting rights and cash flow rights, demonstrate worse accounting transparency, participate more intensively in related party transactions, and appoint more connected audit partners. Further, we find that the spillover effects subside when the peer member firms engage Big Four auditors. We also document that peer member firms that are later identified as committing accounting fraud suffer sharper stock price declines around the revelation of the initial accounting scandal in the business group. Collectively, our evidence implies that an accounting scandal at a member firm destroys the market values of peer member firms by triggering investors’ concerns about accounting fraud risk for these firms.

Keywords: Business groups, accounting scandals, spillover effects, agency conflicts.

JEL Classification: G30, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Guilong and Ge, Rui and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zolotoy, Leon, The Spillover Effects of Accounting Scandals in Business Groups (January 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003327
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies