Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Restatements and Bank Liquidity Creation

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Fox School of Business Research Paper

96 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022

Wei Wang

Temple University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 8, 2022

Abstract

Banks play a central role in creating liquidity for the economy by financing illiquid assets with liquid liabilities. This paper examines the effect of accounting restatements on bank liquidity creation. Using a difference-in-differences research design, I show that restatements trigger a significant reduction in liquidity creation. This effect derives mainly from banks shifting away from illiquid assets and toward liquid assets. Further analysis reveals that restatements affect liquidity creation through supervisory enforcement actions and unravelling of risk exposures accumulated in the misreporting period. Government deposit insurance blunts the effect of an information asymmetry channel.

Keywords: bank liquidity creation; restatements; supervisory actions; deposit insurance; risk-taking

JEL Classification: G21; G28; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Wei, Accounting Restatements and Bank Liquidity Creation (January 8, 2022). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Fox School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The economic consequences of financial restatements: Evidence from the market for corporate control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2014
K Balakrishnan , J Core , R Verdi
The relation between reporting quality and financing and investment: evidence from changes in financing capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Load more
3 Citations
Jose-Maria Martin-Flores
Is bank misconduct related to social capital? Evidence from U.S. banks
Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming · 82 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 425
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexander Ufier , Jeffrey Traczynski , Amanda Heitz
Quick on the Draw: Line Adjustment and Draw Behavior in Failing Banks
FDIC Center for Financial Research Paper No. 2022-11 · 54 Pages · Posted: 15 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 8 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 111
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matthew Ege , Allison Nicoletti , Sarah Stuber
Auditor Scrutiny and Bank Loan Portfolio Composition
49 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 136
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
109,481
3 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies