Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Audit Committees Support Audit Engagement Teams and Encourage Professional Skepticism? A Survey and Experimental Evidence

55 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

We explore how audit committees (ACs) support audit engagement teams and whether AC support can increase auditors’ professional skepticism, specifically skeptical actions in response to fraud red flags. We first survey audit practitioners and find that AC support is multidimensional, varies between engagements, and is often not communicated to the entire engagement team. We then experimentally investigate whether the explicit communication of AC support to the entire engagement team—either through the audit partner or directly by the AC chair—increases skeptical actions. The conveyance of AC support increases skeptical actions, particularly when management has poor attitudes toward the engagement team. Our findings related to direct communication by the AC chair, as opposed to indirect communication by the partner, are mixed. While direct communication does not increase skeptical action beyond the level observed when the partner conveys the AC support, it does mitigate the degree to which anticipated management conflict decreases skeptical action. Our study highlights the importance of AC support in relation to auditor skepticism and underscores the audit partner’s critical role in ensuring AC support is effectively communicated to their entire engagement team.


Keywords: audit committee, social support, fraud red flag, management attitude, auditor professional skepticism

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Gold, Anna and Leiby, Justin and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, How do Audit Committees Support Audit Engagement Teams and Encourage Professional Skepticism? A Survey and Experimental Evidence (July 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4003607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
A A Austin , T Carpenter , M H Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
AFM report on audit committees: The role of audit committees in selecting the external auditor and monitoring the external audit
Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) Posted: 2021
A Bakker , E Demerouti , W Verbeke
Using the job demands-resources model to predict burnout and performance
Human Resource Management , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 104 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,089
RANK
98,886
5 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies