Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Provide Informative Disclosures in An Environment of Extreme Uncertainty? Evidence from the COVID-19 Pandemic

46 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022 Last revised: 29 Jul 2022

Changling Chen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Betty (Bin) Xing

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

We study the informativeness of corporate disclosures in an environment of extreme uncertainty by using the COVID-19 pandemic as the setting. During the initial stage of the pandemic, firms had to respond to an unprecedented crisis with little prior experience or guidance from regulators. We find that COVID-19 disclosures in annual reports appeared to have been informative to investors during this period of extreme uncertainty. Using two measures of disclosure quality derived from unsupervised machine learning, we find that the market reacts more strongly to COVID-19 disclosures that are more firm-specific. Understanding firms’ disclosure behavior in an environment of extreme uncertainty has important policy implications and may inform securities regulators on the role they should play in similar situations as the SEC transitions to a more principles-based approach towards disclosure regulation.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, Corporate disclosures, Annual reports, 10-K filings, Textual analysis, Topic modelling

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G14, M21

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Changling and Stratopoulos, Theophanis C. and Wang, Victor Xiaoqi and Xing, Betty (Bin), Do Firms Provide Informative Disclosures in An Environment of Extreme Uncertainty? Evidence from the COVID-19 Pandemic (January 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4004649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4004649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Aaron , J Kang , J Ng , T O Rusticus
Withdrawal of Management Guidance During the COVID-19 Pandemic Posted: 2021
R A Albuquerque , Y J Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash. European Corporate Governance Institute -Finance Working Paper No. 676 Posted: 2020
Y Bao , A Datta , A Beatty , L Cheng , H Zhang
Are Risk Factor Disclosures Still Relevant? Evidence from Market Reactions to Risk Factor Disclosures Before and After the Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 6 , p. 805 - 838 Posted: 2014
A L Boone , A Kim , J T White
Local policy uncertainty and firm disclosure Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Beata Zyznarska-Dworczak
Financial and ESG reporting in times of uncertainty
Zeszyty Teoretyczne Rachunkowości , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 161 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,957
RANK
229,982
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies