Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Board of Directors Ensure Quality of Disclosures in Annual Reports?

Shanlax International Journal of Management, Vol. 9, No. 3 (2022) pp 17-25

9 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2022

Devendra Jarwal

University of Delhi

Date Written: January 1, 2022

Abstract

A company’s published annual report is the primary channel of communication with shareholders and shareholders use these reports as a tool to monitor the activities of the Companies. The present study is an attempt to assess the effectiveness of annual reports in communication and its utility in monitoring affairs of the companies. The prime focus of this study is to rate management discussion and analysis on perceived risk factors of the company and the disclosure quality of risk perceptions of the management. The purpose of the study is to explore the quality of disclosures in the annual reports hence exploratory-qualitative analysis technique has been applied. Reports of selected companies were analysed and results were discussed with selected stakeholders to corroborate findings with the existing patters in disclosures. The study concludes that the level of reporting is associated with stages of maturity of a company and during a larger phase of a company quality of disclosure remains irrelevant to management as well as to shareholders. Existing researches on the subject have identified various factors influencing comprehensiveness of disclosures in the annual reports while this research has explored a new theory of irrelevance in disclosing crucial risk-related perceptions.

Keywords: Corporate governance, disclosures, annual reports, risk management, management discussion

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Jarwal, Devendra, Do Board of Directors Ensure Quality of Disclosures in Annual Reports? (January 1, 2022). Shanlax International Journal of Management, Vol. 9, No. 3 (2022) pp 17-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4004137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate Mandatory Disclosure Practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Dulacha G Barako
Determinants of Voluntary Disclosures in Keynan Companies Annual Reports
African Journal of Business Management , volume 1 , issue 5 , p. 113 - 128 Posted: 2007
Susan A Bartlett , Roy A Chandler
The Corporate Report and the Private Shareholder: Lee and Tweedie Twenty Years On
The British Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 261 Posted: 1997
Sasa Baskarada
Qualitative Case Study Guidelines
The Qualitative Report , volume 19 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
772,295
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies