Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Size Management in Response to Mandatory Audit Rules

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/2

29 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022

Øivind André Strand Aase

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

Many countries have introduced thresholds for mandatory audits as a measure of reducing complexity and costs for private firms’ financial reporting. Firms around the size thresholds have incentives to size down in order to avoid audit costs when the perceived benefits of audit are smaller than the costs. Norway was the last country in the EU/EEA to have a fully regulated audit market for all limited liability firms. Using panel data from this institutional setting, I find clear evidence of change in the size distribution of firms around the revenue threshold after the audit reform. I find that the firms that avoid audit save external services fees by an amount comparable to their estimated lost profits. This suggests that also indirect audit costs, such as management time, play a part in the cost-benefit assessment of audits. I find no significant evidence of firms using real earnings management as a mechanism for size management. This implies that firms stay below the audit threshold through other forms of size management, such as foregoing short term growth opportunities. Total revenue lost due to revenue management in years affected by the audit-reform is, however, estimated to be immaterial.

Keywords: Voluntary audit, private firms, size management, revenue threshold

JEL Classification: H20, M42

Suggested Citation:

Aase, Øivind André Strand, Size Management in Response to Mandatory Audit Rules (January 10, 2022). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4005242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4005242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Ø A S Aase
Effects of voluntary audit on accounting quality in small private firms: Unpublished manuscript Posted: 2021
Ø A S Aase , J Møen
The effect of private audit on tax compliance: Unpublished manuscript Posted: 2021
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
E Amir , J M Carabias , J Jona , G Livne
Fixed-effects in empirical accounting research Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
RANK
667,795
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies