Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Awe Culture and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from China

Accounting and Finance

53 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022 Last revised: 11 Feb 2023

Chao Yan

Independent

Jiaxin Wang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Zhi Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

By proxying “awe culture” (i.e., reverence for life and ethical behavior) with regional induced abortion rates, we examine the impact of awe culture on corporate social responsibility (CSR) in a sample of Chinese firms. We find that firms located in areas with higher induced abortion rates spend less funds on CSR activities and obtain lower CSR scores. The findings remain intact after an array of robustness tests. Further analysis shows that the effect of awe culture on CSR is more pronounced in areas with weaker law enforcement and where the local government emphasizes economic growth targets. However, the effect becomes insignificant when firms are well-represented by top executives with overseas experience, foreign directors, and a high proportion of female board members. The significance of the effect also diminishes for non-state-owned firms, and firms with higher institutional ownership and higher cash holdings. Moreover, the lack of awe culture attenuates the positive impact of CSR on firm value. Overall, we document that awe culture, as an informal institution, shapes CSR behaviors.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility; awe culture; abortion rate; informal institutions

JEL Classification: G30, M14, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Yan, Chao and Wang, Jiaxin and Wang, Zhi and Chan, Johnny, Awe Culture and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from China (January 21, 2022). Accounting and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4005825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4005825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
E Battisti , N Nirino , E Leonidou , A Thrassou
Corporate venture capital and CSR performance: An extended resource based view's perspective
Journal of Business Research , volume 139 Posted: 1058
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
S Brammer , A Millington
Does it pay to be different? An analysis of the relationship between corporate social and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 29 , issue 12 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
RANK
355,741
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies