Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do I Have Your Loyalty?: The Proportion of Named Executive Officers Hired by the CEO, Firm Risk, and Auditors' Fee Premiums

52 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022 Last revised: 12 Sep 2023

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Weizhu Hou

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Bo Zhang

School of Business, Renmin University of China

Xindong (Kevin) ZHU

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 11, 2023

Abstract

We examine the external implications of a recently documented corporate governance concern – the proportion of a firm’s top management team that is appointed during a CEO’s tenure (i.e., top management team, or TMT, co-option). Specifically, we examine whether an external stakeholder (i.e., auditor) perceives TMT co-option to increase firm risk and if so whether they price that risk. Using a sample of U.S. firms during the 2001-2018 period, we find that TMT co-option is positively associated with audit fees. This result suggests that auditors perceive a firm to be riskier when its CEO appoints a greater proportion of its top management team. Next, we find that a higher degree of TMT co-option appears to increase audit pricing through virtually all risk channels: higher inherent risk, higher control risk, and higher firm litigation risk. In additional analysis, we document that TMT co-option is negatively related to the quality of audited earnings, although auditors appear to increase effort in the face of high inherent, control, and litigation risks accompanied with TMT co-option. We also find that the relation between TMT co-option and audit fees is less pronounced for firms with stronger corporate governance and longer-tenure auditors. Overall, our results support the notion that TMT co-option is a corporate governance concern that increases firm risk, and that at least one external stakeholder (i.e., auditors) detects and prices that risk.

Keywords: Top management team (TMT) co-option; Operating risk; Litigation risk; Audit pricing

JEL Classification: M12; M42

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Hou, Weizhu and Zhang, Bo and ZHU, Xindong (Kevin), Do I Have Your Loyalty?: The Proportion of Named Executive Officers Hired by the CEO, Firm Risk, and Auditors' Fee Premiums (September 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4006842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4006842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
AU-C Section
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit , volume 240 Posted: 2020
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
252,662
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies