Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Mergers and Acquisitions on Investee’S Market Share in Malawian Insurance Industry

Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 1. Aug 2020

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

Very often business acquisition is associated with the introduction of new products, new markets and increase in the market share of the investee probably as a result of the increase in the economies of scale. This is usually anticipated in view of the intense due diligence exercise which acquirer undertakes to justify investment in the target company and has to identify opportunities for growth and profit maximization. The expectations for improved results for the investee are even greater when the acquirer is an international firm which has standards for operating across the geographical spectrum. The results of this study have however shown meagre improvement in the market share, product development and market development of the Malawian insurance acquisition transactions which took place between 2009 and 2019. This is a strange phenomenon perhaps attributed to the low insurance penetration in Malawi which give maximum returns to the insurers even if the market share is low and have to utilise existing products with minimum risk.

Keywords: Effects; Market; Share; Malawi; Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Effect of Mergers and Acquisitions on Investee’S Market Share in Malawian Insurance Industry (August 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 1. Aug 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M J Baker
Marketing Strategy and Management, 4 th Edition Posted: 2007
A Carmeli , G D Markman
Capture, governance, and resilience: Strategy implications from the history of Rome
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 3 Posted: 2011
Susan Cartwright , Richard Schoenberg
30 Years of Mergers and Acquisitions Research: Recent Advances and Future Opportunities
British Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue S1 , p. S1 - S5 Posted: 2006
Frank Ejoor , Wisdom , Elizabeth Okechukwu , Uzoamaka , Ferdinand Iroegbu , Ngene
Mergers and Acquisitions as a Growth Strategy in Business Organizations: A Study of Nigeria Banking Sector
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 10 , issue 6 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
718,946
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies