Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity Fund Pricing in Secondary Markets: Effects of Taxes and Fund Structure

Journal of Alternative Investments, Vol. 25, No. 4, Spring 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.3905/jai.2023.1.182

Posted: 14 Jan 2022 Last revised: 3 Apr 2023

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 16, 2023

Abstract

Private equity (PE) funds are growing, beginning to take the lead in capital markets. In conjunction with this growth, secondary markets for PE fund ownership interests also have grown. Recent research investigates the valuation discount that sellers of PE fund interests incur in secondary markets, and suggests this discount is driven entirely by the illiquidity inherent in PE. This article describes how the legal structure of PE funds, instrumental to funds’ existence and operations but largely ignored in prior research, can impose a tax discount in addition to an illiquidity discount in the secondary market. Thus, it extends this new and important stream of research by highlighting that illiquidity may be only one attribute driving PE fund secondary market discounts and that after-tax, rather than pretax returns, warrant consideration in these markets.


(c) 2023 PMR. All rights reserved.

Keywords: Private equity, Secondary market for private equity funds, Liquidity, Tax, Transaction costs, Organizational structure, Alternative investment vehicles

JEL Classification: G12, G24, G32, H2

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Private Equity Fund Pricing in Secondary Markets: Effects of Taxes and Fund Structure (February 16, 2023). Journal of Alternative Investments, Vol. 25, No. 4, Spring 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.3905/jai.2023.1.182, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4007635
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies