Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPO Withdrawals: Are Corporate Governance and VC Characteristics the Guiding Light in the Rough Sea of Volatile Markets?

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 67, No. 101908, 2021

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Tereza Tykvova

University of St. Gallen - Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance; Swiss Finance Institute

Annika Reiff

University of Hohenheim

Date Written: January 13, 2022

Abstract

More than 25% of all US firms that file for an IPO withdraw their offering from registration. Our study, which includes 3438 US domestic first-time IPO filings between 1997 and 2014, examines whether in times of high market volatility, high-quality corporate governance and VC backing may serve as a signal and thus reduce the withdrawal probability. Our results from an interaction term analysis support the view that corporate governance characteristics, but not the VC backing per se, tend to provide signals in highly volatile markets. In addition, our paper delves into the effect of VC characteristics. Local VCs tend to reduce the withdrawal probability. The same holds for VC syndication, particularly in highly volatile markets. Finally, our findings lend support to the conclusion that in highly volatile environments, reputable VCs tend to follow the dual-track strategy or postpone the IPO of their portfolio firms more often than in less volatile markets.

Keywords: Initial public offering, Withdrawal, Volatile market, Corporate governance, Venture capital

JEL Classification: G14, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Tykvova, Tereza and Reiff, Annika, IPO Withdrawals: Are Corporate Governance and VC Characteristics the Guiding Light in the Rough Sea of Volatile Markets? (January 13, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 67, No. 101908, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4008334
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies