Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Information Bundling Enhance or Impede Managerial Learning from Capital Markets?

62 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2022 Last revised: 12 Apr 2025

Mustafa Ahci

Erasmus Univeristy Rotterdam School of Management

Tim Martens

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Christoph J. Sextroh

Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg; Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 12, 2025

Abstract

Market reactions to the announcement of firm-specific information can be informative for managerial decision making. We examine whether managers' ability to gather decision-relevant information from market reactions is affected by information bundling. Using exogenous variation in the number and technological similarity of patents granted at the same time as a measure of information bundling, we show that the market reaction to patent grants is more informative for managerial decisions if fewer or more similar patents are released on the same day. This effect is stronger for patents that relate to more exploratory innovative strategies for which feedback is more important. Firms with more separate information releases also produce more valuable and higher quality innovations in the future. Taken together, our results suggest that bundling the release of multiple pieces of information impedes managers' ability to benefit from the market's feedback. 

Keywords: Information bundling, Information release, Patent disclosure, Patent grant, Capital market feedback, Corporate innovation, Corporate investment, Managerial learning

JEL Classification: D83, G14, M40, O30

Suggested Citation:

Ahci, Mustafa and Martens, Tim and Sextroh, Christoph J., Does Information Bundling Enhance or Impede Managerial Learning from Capital Markets? (April 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4009199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2022
H Almeida , P.-H Hsu , D Li , K Tseng
More cash, less innovation: The e!ect of the american jobs creation act on patent value
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2021
A Arya , R Ramanan
Disclosure to regulate learning in product markets from the stock market
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2022
D H Austin
An event-study approach to measuring innovative output: The case of biotechnology
American Economic Review , volume 83 , p. 253 - 258 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,766
RANK
163,413
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies