Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Bank Income Smoothing Using Loan Loss Provisions in the United Kingdom

Journal of Economic and Adminstrative Sciences, Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2022

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: January 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants of bank income smoothing using loan loss provisions in the United Kingdom or Great Britain from 1999 to 2017. The findings show that UK banks use loan loss provision for income smoothing purposes. Income smoothing is greater in times of high economic policy uncertainty. The extent of bank income smoothing is reduced by foreign bank presence, UK GAAP adoption, IFRS9 adoption, and high levels of voice and accountability. Also, there is reduced income smoothing using loan loss provisions during a financial crisis and in periods of economic prosperity. The implication is that economic conditions, institutional governance and accounting disclosure rules can influence the extent of bank income smoothing in the United Kingdom. The findings of the study contribute to several studies that explore the determinants of bank income smoothing in different country context.

Keywords: banks, earnings management, United Kingdom, loan loss provisions, income smoothing, economic policy uncertainty, Great Britain, accounting disclosure, financial crisis.

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Determinants of Bank Income Smoothing Using Loan Loss Provisions in the United Kingdom (January 2022). Journal of Economic and Adminstrative Sciences, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Abu-Serdaneh
Bank loan-loss accounts, income smoothing, capital management, signaling and procyclicality
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 677 - 693 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
E S S Alzoubi
Disclosure quality and earnings management: Evidence from Jordan
Accounting Research Journal , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 456 Posted: 2016
Z An , D Li , J Yu
Earnings management, capital structure, and the role of institutional environments
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 68 , p. 131 - 152 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
409,437
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies