Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Government Borrowing on Corporate Acquisitions: International Evidence

46 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2022

Azizjon Alimov

IESEG School of Management, Univ. Lille, CNRS, UMR 9221 - LEM - Lille Economie Management; IESEG School of Management LEM-CNRS UMR 9221

Date Written: October 19, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines how variation in the supply of government debt affects corporate acquisition activity. Using data from 50 countries from 1991 to 2017, the paper finds that government debt issuance is strongly negatively associated with acquisition activity at the firm and aggregate levels. In response to increases in government borrowing, firms appear to make more value-enhancing deals. These effects are stronger for cash-financed deals and for financially stronger firms. Collectively, these findings suggest that rising government debt leads to “real crowding out” by affecting the ability of firms to make large investments.

Keywords: government debt, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: E62, G34

Suggested Citation:

Alimov, Azizjon, The Impact of Government Borrowing on Corporate Acquisitions: International Evidence (October 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4009751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
K Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
C Akkoyun , N Ersahin , C M James
Crowded out from the Beginning: Impact of Government Debt on Corporate Financing Posted: 2021
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment Rev. Financ. Studies , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
J D Angrist , J-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,846
RANK
730,194
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies