Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Human Capital Management Response and Firm Value

46 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2022 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: Feb 22, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether corporate human capital management responses to the COVID-19 pandemic (COVIDHCM) have implications for firm value. We exploit newly mandated SEC human capital disclosures in 10-K filings to measure COVIDHCM investments. To validate our measure, we first show that our COVIDHCM measure is positively associated with how favorably employees view the firm’s pandemic response. We then examine the association between COVIDHCM investment and firm value. We find favorable COVIDHCM investment valuation effects appear only as financial flexibility increases. Financial flexibility pertains to the firm’s cash balance at the onset of the pandemic and captures resources that can facilitate investment during the pandemic. We also find that as financial flexibility increases, COVIDHCM investment is positively associated with overall employee satisfaction and employee productivity. Overall, the results suggest firm actions to protect employees’ welfare were value enhancing during the global pandemic, but only for firms with sufficient financial flexibility.

Keywords: human capital management; COVID-19 pandemic; employee welfare; firm value; financial flexibility.

Suggested Citation:

Mayew, William J. and Zhang, Yuan, COVID-19 Human Capital Management Response and Firm Value (Feb 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4010151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4010151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
G Akerlof , A Rose , J Yellen
Job switching and job satisfaction in the U.S. labor market
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 495 - 594 Posted: 1988
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
T Allen
The Pandemic Is Changing Employee Benefits
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2021-04-07
Aon
Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,845
RANK
139,743
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies