Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of CSR Disclosure on Financial Performance Companies Listed on The Indonesia Kompas-100 Index 2018-2020

Proceeding of The 38th IBIMA Conference

7 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

M Erwin Althaf

Universitas Indonesia

Zuliani Dalimunthe

Universitas Indonesia

Imbuh Sulistyarini

Universitas Indonesia

Hendro Prabowo

Universitas Indonesia

Date Written: November 24, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to examine the effect of CSR disclosure on company performance among Indonesian companies listed on the Kompas 100 Index during 2018-2020. The company's performance uses four different measures: sales, net profit margin (NPM), return on assets (ROA), and Tobin's Q. This study uses secondary data. The data comes from sustainability reports
published by each company based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, and financial data comes from the Osiris database. This study uses regression analysis by processing cross-sectional data. This study indicates that CSR disclosure in the previous year has a significant positive effect on sales but has a negative effect on net profit margin. However, this study finds no evidence that CSR disclosure affects performance as measured by ROA and Tobin's Q. This
finding indicates that although CSR disclosure has a positive impact on sales, it creates higher cost increases so that it does not impact the company's overall performance as measured by ROA. Meanwhile, the regression results to Tobin's Q show that investors do not significantly respond to CSR disclosure. These findings indicate that disclosure of a firm's CSR activities is perceived as more in compliance with the rules than the company's commitment to maintaining sustainability according to the three-bottom-line concept.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Tobin’s Q, Financial Performance, Three-bottom-line Concept

JEL Classification: D28,D62,D63,H23,G32

Suggested Citation:

Althaf, Muhammad Erwin and Dalimunthe, Zuliani and Sulistyarini, Imbuh and Prabowo, Hendro, The Effect of CSR Disclosure on Financial Performance Companies Listed on The Indonesia Kompas-100 Index 2018-2020 (November 24, 2021). Proceeding of The 38th IBIMA Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
RANK
499,012
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies