Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Really Explains ESG Performance? Disentangling the Asymmetrical Drivers of the Triple Bottom Line

Organization & Environment, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022 Last revised: 21 Mar 2022

Logan Crace

University of Alberta

Joel Gehman

George Washington University - Department of Strategic Management & Public Policy

Date Written: March 19, 2022

Abstract

Why is there such great heterogeneity in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance between firms? Drawing inspiration from the locus of performance literature, we use variance partitioning methods to analyze the extent to which CEO, firm, industry, year, and state effects explain variation in ESG performance over recent decades. Our findings show that internal effects (i.e., CEO and firm) are the strongest determinants. Yet, disaggregation of the multidimensional ESG construct shifts the saliency of the factors significantly, revealing the importance of the external environment (i.e., industry and year) in explaining ESG concerns. Our research extends the locus of performance literature to our understanding of the triple bottom line and contributes to understanding the complex determinants of firm-level ESG performance across an array of positive and negative ESG indicators.

Keywords: ESG, triple bottom line, locus of performance, sustainability

JEL Classification: M14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Crace, Logan and Gehman, Joel, What Really Explains ESG Performance? Disentangling the Asymmetrical Drivers of the Triple Bottom Line (March 19, 2022). Organization & Environment, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
H S Albinger , S J Freeman
Corporate social performance and attractiveness as an employer to different job seeking populations
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 253 Posted: 2000
J Amankwah-Amoah
Stepping up and stepping out of COVID-19: New challenges for environmental sustainability policies in the global airline industry
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 271 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
J A Aragòn-Correa , A A Marcus , D Vogel
The effects of mandatory and voluntary regulatory pressures on firms' environmental strategies: A review and recommendations for future research , volume 14 , p. 339 - 365 Posted: 2019
J S Bain
Relation of profit rate to industry concentration: American manufacturing,1936-1940
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 293 - 324 Posted: 1951
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
RANK
242,713
2 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies