Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contingent Effect of Board Gender Diversity on Performance in Emerging Markets: Evidence from the Egyptian Revolution

Journal of Risk and Financial Management. 2021; 14(11):538. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14110538

16 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Melsa Ararat

Sabanci University - Sabancı Business School, Corporate Governance Forum

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Alan Lowe

School of Accounting; Aston University - Aston Business School - Finance and Accounting Group

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

The 2011 Egyptian revolution was associated with significant political and social upheaval, followed by societal changes and attempts by policymakers to reduce the marginalisation of women and promote their inclusion in the economy. Drawing on this background, the authors compare the effect of board gender diversity before and after the revolution. Results indicate that gender diversity in corporate boards is coupled with improvements in firm performance in the immediate post revolution phase. This evidence provides insights into the contextual factors related to diversity and performance relationship and supporting arguments for regulatory changes to further encourage women’s representation on boards.

Keywords: corporate governance; boards of directors; Egypt; gender diversity; Egyptian Revolution

Suggested Citation:

Ararat, Melsa and El-Helaly, Moataz and Lowe, Alan and Shehata, Nermeen F., Contingent Effect of Board Gender Diversity on Performance in Emerging Markets: Evidence from the Egyptian Revolution (November 9, 2021). Journal of Risk and Financial Management. 2021; 14(11):538. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14110538, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Ahmed Abdel-Meguid
Corporate governance in Egypt: The landscape, the research, and future directions
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 18 , p. 296 - 306 Posted: 2021
Ahmed Aboud , Ahmed Diab
The financial and market consequences of environmental, social and governance ratings-The implications of recent political volatility
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 10 , p. 498 - 520 Posted: 2019
Daron Acemoglu , Tarek A Hassan , Ahmed Tahoun
The power of the street: Evidence from Egypt's Arab Spring
Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2018
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
RANK
791,953
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies