Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Introduction of a Reputation Mechanism for Stewardship Code Voluntary Disclosures Improve Investor Engagement?

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 622/2022

63 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2022 Last revised: 29 Jun 2023

Massimiliano Bonacchi

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management; Stern School of Business, New York University

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sara Longo

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Giovanni Strampelli

Bocconi University - Department of Law; EUSFIL Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 18, 2022

Abstract

Institutional investors have limited resources dedicated to engagement activities, yet, in many
cases they hold thousands of stocks in their portfolios. We exploit the introduction of the tiering
classification system by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in 2016 for signatories reporting
under the UK Stewardship Code, the first and still only country to do so. Using various research
designs, we show that the introduction of this tiering system is associated with a future increase in
overall engagement activities, and with portfolio firms’ ESG performances, for those investors
given a “Tier 1” classification by the FRC. We attribute these findings to Tier 1 investors using
the FRC classification system to burnish their reputations as being active and engaged monitors.

Keywords: Reputation, Engagement, Stewardship Code, Voluntary Disclosures, ESG, Institutional Investors.

JEL Classification: G23, K22, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Bonacchi, Massimiliano and Klein, April and Longo, Sara and Strampelli, Giovanni, Did the Introduction of a Reputation Mechanism for Stewardship Code Voluntary Disclosures Improve Investor Engagement? (January 18, 2022). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 622/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4011957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
D Arsalidou
Shareholders and corporate scrutiny: The role of the UK stewardship code
European Company and Financial Law Review , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 342 - 379 Posted: 2012
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The big three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,846
RANK
71,261
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies