Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firms' Corporate Social Responsibility Activities and Auditor Reputation

Accounting, Organizations and Society, forthcoming 

61 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2022 Last revised: 1 Nov 2022

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Lin Liao

Nanjing Audit Univeristy

Jinxuan Yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: July 19, 2024

Abstract

Professional audit firms increasingly engage in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. This paper examines the effect of audit firms’ CSR activities on auditors’ reputation. We find that audit firms that engage in CSR experience an increase in the size of their client base compared to audit firms that do not engage in CSR. The effect is stronger for audit firms without existing reputation from a Big 4 brand name or industry specialization. We also find that clients that value CSR are more likely to hire audit firms that engage in CSR. Overall, our results suggest that CSR is an effective tool for audit firms to build their reputation in the marketplace.

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Joshua L. and Li, Chan and Liao, Lin and Yang, Jinxuan and Zhou, Shan, Audit Firms' Corporate Social Responsibility Activities and Auditor Reputation (July 19, 2024). Accounting, Organizations and Society, forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4011935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4011935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessment agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
M Baugh , N J Hallman , S J Kachelmeier
A matter of appearances: how does auditing expertise benefit audit committees when selecting auditors?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 234 - 270 Posted: 2022
Load more
4 Citations
Arash Arianpoor , Roghaye Mizban
The impact of risk-taking and auditor characteristics on value creation in pre-Covid 19 and post-Covid 19 pandemic
Management Research Review , volume 46 , issue 7 , p. 933 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yanming Cao , Jengfang Chen , Meiting Lu , Grant Richardson
To switch or not to switch? The effect of audit firms’ economies of scale on audit firm switches after audit price deregulation in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 107098 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yu Zhou , Jiaxin Liu , Dongliang Lei , Joseph H. Zhang
Is audit firms' social performance associated with audit firm reputation? Evidence from China
International Journal of Auditing Posted: 2024
Crossref
Hanwen Chen , Siyi Liu , Xin Liu , Jiani Wang
Do socially responsible audit firms provide higher audit quality? An investigation of corporate social responsibility activity in audit firms
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 206 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,243
RANK
601,090
4 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies