Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Private Incentives while Avoiding Capture: A Field Study of SASB’s Political Economy

43 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Bertrand Malsch

Queen's University - School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

We study the emergence of a new standard-setter and the creation of private incentives for the adoption of voluntary standards by market participants. Through a field study, we find that SASB deliberately and successfully engaged in various types of political work to achieve market equilibrium by lowering the costs of adoption for issuers and creating market consequences for non-adoption. We also find that SASB avoided capture from issuers by securing broad stakeholder engagement to access relevant expertise and by exerting tight control over participation in consultations. We show that sustainability standards can be developed and become generally accepted in the absence of formal regulation and, despite the competitive market for such standards, we find no evidence of a race to bottom. Shifting to a mandatory sustainability reporting regime may destabilize the market equilibrium achieved by SASB and create a risk of capture by replicating the political economy of formal regulation.

Suggested Citation:

Hayne, Christie and Malsch, Bertrand, Creating Private Incentives while Avoiding Capture: A Field Study of SASB’s Political Economy (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4013067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Allen
Agenda Setting at the FASB: Evidence from the Role of the FASAC
, issue 15 Posted: 2014-12
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an Understanding of the Role of Standard Setters in Standard Setting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
R Bloomfield , M W Nelson , E Soltes
Gathering Data for Archival, Field, Survey and Experimental Accounting Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 341 - 395 Posted: 2016
E B Deaking
Rational Economic Behavior and Lobbying on Accounting Issues: Evidence from the Oil and Gas Industry
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , p. 137 - 151 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
922
RANK
368,155
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies