Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Characteristics and Corporate Performance: Evidence from India

Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research ,11 (1) 2022, 96-104, http://publishingindia.com/jcar/

9 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Shubhi Agarwal

Chaudhary Charan Singh University

Archna Singh

Meerut College, Meerut

Date Written: Dec 20, 2020

Abstract

The objective is to analyze the efficacy of firm structure as a corporate governance tool. For this purpose, we examine the effect of firm size, firm age, firm growth, the board size, and independent directors on a board, on corporate performance. To test our hypothesis, we use a sample of 270 Indian IT companies, all of which are listed on the National Stock Exchange. Our main empirical result depicts the positive impact of firm size, firm age, and independent directors on corporate performance. The larger board size can reduce corporate performance, which can lead to a lack of coordination, flexibility, and communication. More members on a board can be the cause of conflict, either in terms of views or opinions, which ultimately leads to the wastage of financial and time resources. The growth of the firm seems to have an insignificant impact on corporate performance as sales figures have a recessionary impact.

Keywords: Firm Age, Firm Growth, Firm Size, Corporate Performance, Board Size, Governance, Independent Directors

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Shubhi and Singh, Archna, Firm Characteristics and Corporate Performance: Evidence from India (Dec 20, 2020). Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research ,11 (1) 2022, 96-104, http://publishingindia.com/jcar/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Aduda , P Kiragu , J Ndwiga
The relationship between agency banking and financial performance of commercial banks in Kenya Posted: 2013
R Agarwal , M Gort
The evolution of markets and entry, exit, and survival of firms
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 498 Posted: 1996
O J Akinyomi , A Olagunj
Effect of firm size on profitability: Evidence from Nigerian manufacturing sector
Prime Journal of Business Administration and Management , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 1171 - 1175 Posted: 2013
H Aldrich , E R Auster
Even dwarfs started small: Liabilities of age and size and their strategic implications
Research in Organizational Behaviour , volume 8 , p. 165 - 186 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
681
RANK
420,501
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies