Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information from Implied Volatility Comovements and Insider Trades

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 22-02

54 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2022

Robert M. Bushman

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Vivek Raval

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Sean Wang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether implied volatility comovements reflect the degree to which a firm’s private information is informative about future macroeconomic news. We compute IVC, the comovement of the implied volatilities between the firm and the aggregate market. IVC measures the extent to which option investors expect the coincidence of future firm and macroeconomic information arrival. Using insider purchases as a proxy for firms’ private information and future aggregate equity returns as a proxy for macroeconomic news, we find that IVC moderates the association between firms’ private information and macroeconomic news. Consistent with this finding, we also find that firms with higher IVC have stock returns that are more informative about future aggregate earnings and have stronger aggregate market reactions to their earnings announcements. Overall, IVC effectively measures the relevance of a firm’s private information to aggregate markets.

Keywords: Volatility, Accounting Earnings, Macroeconomy, Insider Trading, Forecasting, Bellwether

JEL Classification: G14, M41, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Bushman, Robert M. and Raval, Vivek and Wang, Sean, Information from Implied Volatility Comovements and Insider Trades (April 5, 2022). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 22-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013087 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4013087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K I Amin , C M Lee
Option trading, price discovery, and earnings news dissemination
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 192 Posted: 1997
C Anilowski , M Feng , D Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1601 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Guglielmo Maria Caporale , Kyriacos Kyriacou , Nicola Spagnolo
Aggregate insider trading and stock market volatility in the UK
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 89 , p. 101861 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
RANK
306,185
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies