Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Development Goals, Sustainability Indices and Corporate Governance: An Analysis of Spanish Listed Companies

CNMV Bulletin, Quarter III, 2021, pages 79-112

34 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Irma Martínez-García

Universidad de Oviedo - Business Administration

Silvia Gómez Ansón

Universidad de Oviedo - Business Administration

Date Written: January 20, 2021

Abstract

This article analyses how the features of companies’ corporate governance influence the implementation of sustainability actions that work towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) proposed by the United Nations in 2015. For this purpose, a panel of Spanish companies listed on the continuous market in the period 2015-2019 is used. The article also looks at whether a company’s level of commitment to the SDGs and its corporate governance features affect its inclusion in sustainability indices. The findings show that greater independence and greater gender diversity on a board of directors is no longer only an indication that a company probably considers the 2030 Agenda when designing its sustainability actions, but also that it addresses a larger number of SDGs. Other characteristics of corporate governance, such as the size of the board, the number of board meetings or the non-duality of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), do not appear to influence companies’ commitment to the SDGs. The findings also reveal the importance of the size of the company and its adherence to the Global Compact as determinants of its commitment to the 2030 Agenda. The study concludes that neither the corporate governance characteristics of companies nor the fact that they include the 2030 Agenda in their sustainability actions appears to make it more probable that they will be included in sustainability indices.

Keywords: Corporate governance, sustainability, corporate social responsibility, Sustainable Development Goals, 2030 Agenda, sustainability, sustainability indices

JEL Classification: G30, O19, M14

Suggested Citation:

Martínez-García, Irma and Gómez-Ansón, Silvia, Sustainable Development Goals, Sustainability Indices and Corporate Governance: An Analysis of Spanish Listed Companies (January 20, 2021). CNMV Bulletin, Quarter III, 2021, pages 79-112, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
N Agarwal , U Gneiting , R Mhlanga
Raising the bar: Rethinking the role of business in sustainable development goals
OXFAM Discussion Papers Posted: 2017
A Pdf Avrampou , A Skouloudis , G Iliopoulos , N Khan
Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals: Evidence from leading European banks
Sustainable Development , volume 27 , p. 743 - 757 Posted: 2019
R Gago , L Cabeza-García , J L Godos-Díez , C Gallego-Sosa , M Gutiérrez-Fernández , Y Fernández-Torres , M T Nevado-Gil
Corporate Social Responsibility in the European banking sector: Commitment to the 2030 Agenda and its relationship with gender diversity
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 27 , p. 1 - 731 Posted: 2020
R Hahn , M Kühnen
Determinants of sustainability reporting: A review of results, trends, theory, and opportunities in an expanding field of research
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 59 , p. 5 - 21 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
RANK
724,439
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies