Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability, Ethics, and the Business World

Paterson, A., Barghathi, Y., Mathur, S. and Jackson, W., 2018. 2 Accountability, Ethics, and the Business World. In Contemporary Issues in Social Accounting (pp. 11-31). Goodfellow Publishers.

19 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022

Audrey Paterson

University of Aberdeen

Yasser Barghathi

Zayed University - College of Business

William J. Jackson

Heriot-Watt University

Date Written: January 20, 2022

Abstract

The activities of business and the financial services industry and their decision-making processes
are predominantly motivated by the profit maximisation criteria which can often lead to highly
questionable decisions being made (Paterson et al, 2016). Indeed, we do not need to dig too far
into the financial services world and the activities of business to find examples that demonstrate a
distinct lack of consideration for society, the environment, or human life, as well as activities that
demonstrate questionable moral or ethical behaviour. The collapse of Enron, for example, was an
outcome of unethical behaviour by the management and the accounting firm (Arthur Andersen),
which resulted in great losses suffered by all of its stakeholders. Questionable business and
accounting decisions are not restricted to the private sector but are also found within the Public
and Third sectors. Cooperatives and family business are also not exempt from questionable
business behaviour.

Suggested Citation:

Paterson, Audrey and Barghathi, Yasser and Jackson, William J., Accountability, Ethics, and the Business World (January 20, 2022). Paterson, A., Barghathi, Y., Mathur, S. and Jackson, W., 2018. 2 Accountability, Ethics, and the Business World. In Contemporary Issues in Social Accounting (pp. 11-31). Goodfellow Publishers., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Further Reading
J S Adams , A Tashchian , Ted H Shore
Codes of ethics as signals for ethical behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 29 , p. 199 - 211 Posted: 2001
E Anscombe
M S Atakan , S Burnaz , Y I Topcu
An empirical investigation of the ethical perceptions of future managers with a special emphasis on gender -Turkish case
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 82 , p. 573 - 586 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
244,478
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies