Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on Performance of Ethiopian Commercial Banks

54 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2022

Robel Yohannes

Independent

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

The study aimed to investigate the impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on performance of Ethiopian commercial banks in Ethiopia: Wogagen bank as case studies corresponding to the determinants namely economic, legal, ethical, and philanthropy responsibilities of the firm. Five year data for the period 2015-2020 was used to study. In relation to the methodology it was mixed approach (both quantitative and qualitative) purposive and simple random sampling technique was used in selecting 152 respondents. The study has been conducted on the basis of the quantitative and qualitative research techniques to assess the levels, factor motivate and challenges of Corporate Social Responsibility practice and inferential statistics to assess the impact of corporate social responsibilities on financial performance of the bank. Primary data were collected through questionnaire and semi-structured interview have been also conducted with managers and vice managers of the bank through open ended questions which are designed to elicit their perception about the nature of Corporate Social Responsibility. Finally, the primary and secondary data collected were coded, entered into computer and analyzed and presented in the form of tables using excel and Eviews. The result of the study shows that Corporate Social Responsibility do not have significant influence and there are inverse relationship with return on asset (ROA) and direct relationship with return on equity (ROE).


Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Corporate financial performance(CFP), return on asset (ROA), return on equity (ROE), Earning per share(EPS), Divided per share(DPS), International labor organization (ILO), ordinary least square (OLS), classical linear regression model (CLRM), Durbin and Watson

Suggested Citation:

Setegn, Robel Yohannes, Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on Performance of Ethiopian Commercial Banks (January 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Y Abdulhamid
Assessment On Corporate Social Responsibility Practices And Determinants: A Comparative Study Conducted In Addis
Ababa Tannery And Awash Tannery Academy of Management Journal Posted: 2013
D Alexander , V Karl , Lukas .R , F Hannes , B Wagner
Do Institutional Investors Drive Corporate Social Responsibility? International evidence Posted: 2015
Asfaw , M T ; Clar , F Gallo , E Villam , R M
Business Case For Corporate Social Responsibility. A Review Of Concepts Researches And Practice
Guide Towards A More Sustainable Tannery Sector In The Mediterranean Demisse .F and Dachassa.F , p. 114 - 135 Posted: 2001
J J Griffin , J F Mahon
The Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance Debate: Twenty-Five Years of Incomparable Debate , volume 36 , p. 5 - 31 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
RANK
125,691
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies