Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Zwift Disrupt Peloton's Ascent?

Darden Case No. UVA-C-2454

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2022 Last revised: 10 Jun 2022

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Colin Wright-Pruski

Independent

Gerry Yemen

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

This public-sourced case uses the fitness company Zwift and one of its competitors, Peloton, to explore cost allocation and bundling services. The material includes a task to provide a back-of-the-envelope pitch about Zwift's potential to disrupt Peloton's growth. Although Zwift's foundation was on the software side, would an entry into the hardware side of the fitness space present a viable opportunity? As part of the analysis, students prepare a pitch using case and exhibit information around cost assignment, cost management, and how a strategic move based on these costs could be in the best interest of the firm or harm it.

Excerpt

UVA-C-2454

Rev. Jun. 3, 2022

Can Zwift Disrupt Peloton's Ascent?

Zwift has generated real excitement around a solitary indoor activity that many riders will tell you has always thoroughly sucked.

—Andrew Tilin

. . .

Keywords: strategic planning, cost analysis, cost accounting, services, profitability, Peloton, exercise, Zwift

Suggested Citation:

Dikolli, Shane and Wright-Pruski, Colin and Yemen, Gerry, Can Zwift Disrupt Peloton's Ascent?. Darden Case No. UVA-C-2454, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014641
Purchase - $6.25
8 References
Adrienne Bernhard
The World's Most Flexible Mode of Transport
BBC Posted: 2021-12-16
Ingrid Lunden
Zwift, Which Turns Indoor Cycling Workouts into Multiplayer Games Raises $120M Posted: 2018-12-19
Carlton Reid
Get Zwifting: Learn the Basics of What You Need to Zwift
Indoor Cycling App Zwift Secures $120m Investment to Aid Esports Expansion Posted: 2021-12-16
Jason Sumner
Are You Zwift Curious? Here's a Guide on Everything You Need to Know Posted: 2021-02-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
863
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies