Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Ethical Practices on Small and Medium Enterprises’ Performance in Saudi Arabia: An Partial Least Squares -Structural Equation Modeling Analysis

South African Journal of Business Management, 52(1), a2551. (online) https://doi.org/10.4102/sa, 2021

21 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2022

Turki Shjaan Abalala

King Abdulaziz University - Faculty of Economics and Administration

Md. Mazharul Islam

King Abdulaziz University

Md. Mahmudul Alam

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Economics, Finance and Banking

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Purpose: The real challenge of establishing and maintaining business ethics in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) has become a global issue. We investigated the driving forces of ethical practices (EP) and its contribution to the overall performance in businesses.

Design/methodology/approach: This study collected primary data from 117 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Saudi Arabia by using a well-designed questionnaire survey amongst SMEs and draw inferences using the structural equation modelling (SEM) analysis.

Findings/results: Findings suggested that top management’s characters and ethical commitment, ethical policy and culture of the organisation and external pressure positively influence the ethical practice in the organisation, which leads to a significant positive impact
on both financial and non-financial performances of SMEs. But the level of fraud and corruption and the level of monitoring show a mixed moderating effect on the relationships between ethical practice in the organisation and business performance.

Practical implications: The findings of this research will help SMEs’ administrators and managers, as well as the companies to instil workplace ethics, which manages the level of business performance. The policymakers and other relevant authorities can also utilise the
outcomes of this study to develop ethical policy guidelines and frameworks to improve SMEs’ competitiveness and sustain their companies in the long run.

Originality/value: The unique feature of this research is that both the causes and effects of EP are considered in one integrated model. This gives a more vivid picture of the ethical issue in a business organisation.


Keywords: Business ethics; business performance; ethical practices; ethical policy and culture; ethical commitment; small and medium enterprises (SME)

Suggested Citation:

Shjaan Abalala, Turki and Islam, Md. Mazharul and Alam, Md. Mahmudul, Impact of Ethical Practices on Small and Medium Enterprises’ Performance in Saudi Arabia: An Partial Least Squares -Structural Equation Modeling Analysis (2021). South African Journal of Business Management, 52(1), a2551. (online) https://doi.org/10.4102/sa, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A J Abiodun , J O Oyeniyi
Ethical dilemmas in management: An African perspective
Journal of Business Systems , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 36 - 44 Posted: 2011
M Adams , P Hardwick
An analysis of corporate donations: United Kingdom evidence
Journal of Management Studies , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 641 - 654 Posted: 1998
N H Ahmad
Doing Well By Doing Good"-A Study Of Ethical And Socially Responsible Practices Among Entrepreneurial Ventures In An Emerging Economy
Frontiers of Entrepreneurship Research , volume 29 , issue 12 Posted: 2009
M A Ajagbe , K Ismail
Factors influencing venture capital assessment of high growth companies in Malaysia
international journal of entrepreneurship and small business , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 457 - 494 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
RANK
256,420
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies