Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance, market orientation and performance of Iran's upscale hotels

Kazemian, S., Djajadikerta, H.G., Said, J., Mat Roni, S., Trireksani, T. & Alam, M.M. (2021). Corporate Governance, Market Orientation and Performance of Iran's Upscale Hotels. Tourism and Hospitality Research, 21(3), 344-357. (online) https://doi.org/10.1177/14673584211003644

19 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2022

Md. Mahmudul Alam

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Economics, Finance and Banking

Soheil Kazemian

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

Market orientation has been known as an efficient managerial tool to assist in sustaining the performance of organisations. Market orientation has three dimensions, namely customer orientation, competitor orientation and inter-function coordination. This paper evaluates how corporate governance influences the three dimensions of market orientation within Iran's upscale hotels. The impacts of the three dimensions of market orientation on the hotels' social and financial performance are also examined to determine if market orientation mediates the relationships between corporate governance and performance. Partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) is used to analyse the survey data collected from the executives of four- and five-star hotels in Mashhad, Iran. Results show that corporate governance positively influences the three dimensions of market orientation, while overall market orientation influences financial and social performance. Specifically, customer orientation and inter-function coordination significantly reinforce such mediation, whereas the influence of competitor orientation is limited to financial performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, market orientation, financial performance, social performance, upscale hotels, tourism and hospitality, Iran, partial least squares, PLS

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Md. Mahmudul and Kazemian, Soheil, Corporate governance, market orientation and performance of Iran's upscale hotels (January 21, 2022). Kazemian, S., Djajadikerta, H.G., Said, J., Mat Roni, S., Trireksani, T. & Alam, M.M. (2021). Corporate Governance, Market Orientation and Performance of Iran's Upscale Hotels. Tourism and Hospitality Research, 21(3), 344-357. (online) https://doi.org/10.1177/14673584211003644, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Abdul Zalim , S N Abdul Khalid , S N Azhar , Z
Managing social and economic performance in social enterprise
Journal of Business Management and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 74 Posted: 2016
C A Adams , P Mcnicholas
Making a difference: Sustainability reporting, accountability and organisational change. Accounting
Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 382 - 402 Posted: 2007
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals*
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
S Agarwal , M K Erramilli , C S Dev
Market orientation and performance in service firms: Role of innovation
Journal of Services Marketing , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 82 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
RANK
778,745
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies