Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Global Systemically Important Banks, Banking Supervisory Power, and Audit Fees

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022 Last revised: 29 Jan 2024

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Romain Oberson

IESEG School of Management

Alain Schatt

University of Lausanne, HEC-Lausanne

Date Written: January 28, 2024

Abstract

In 2011, the Financial Stability Board designated the world’s largest banks as Global Systemically Important Banks (GSIBs), subjecting them to increased supervision and additional capital requirements, which likely altered their auditors’ engagement risk and effort. In this study, we examine the implications of the GSIB designation for the audit fees of European banks, finding that the designation is accompanied by a 12.8% increase in audit fees for GSIBs relative to non-GSIBs. The increase in audit fees is mainly driven by GSIBs from countries with less powerful banking supervisors, with these GSIBs exhibiting improvements in the quality of their financial reporting. Overall, our findings suggest that although the GSIB designation involves some significant costs (i.e., higher audit fees), it offers some benefits (i.e., higher financial reporting quality), and these benefits mainly occur in countries with less powerful banking supervisors.

Keywords: Audit effort, Global systemically important banks, Banking supervisory power, Financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Oberson, Romain and Schatt, Alain, European Global Systemically Important Banks, Banking Supervisory Power, and Audit Fees (January 28, 2024). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
I Argimón , M Dietsch , Á Estrada
Prudential filters, portfolio composition at fair value and capital ratios in European banks
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 39 , p. 187 - 208 Posted: 2018-12
K Balakrishnan , E T De George , A Ertan , H Scobie
Economic consequences of mandatory auditor reporting to bank regulators
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
926
RANK
505,214
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies