Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In the Cloud

Darden Case No. UVA-OM-1734

25 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2022

Timothy M. Laseter

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business; Emory University - Goizueta Business School; University of Navarra, IESE Business School; London Business School; New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Alyssa Coughenour

Independent

Jane Webb

Independent

Abstract

Charu Thomas, cofounder and CEO of Ox, a software platform provider that helped retailers improve online order fulfillment, was proud of how her business had grown and earned positive feedback from investors, beta customers, and the press. Now, in the summer of 2021, revenue was on track to meet projections, and she began a comprehensive analysis of her costs, especially cloud hosting and computing costs. Ox's software was built and relied fully on cloud services, and Thomas had originally chosen a cloud provider based on capabilities and speed to build, not on cost. When she compared her costs to those of similarly sized start-ups, she realized Ox was paying 10 times what she expected to pay at scale. Fortunately, Thomas had recently welcomed Brent Sperry, who had worked on multiple cloud initiatives, as Ox's new chief operating officer. She shared her insights into the costs of cloud providers with Sperry and proposed the next project: benchmarking and reevaluating cloud costs for Ox. They aimed to better understand which activities were driving cloud-related costs, how prices compared across cloud providers for each activity, what operational constraints, if any, Ox currently faced, and the advantages of one provider over another. In the end, would they stick with the current cloud provider? What changes would they request on their current cloud bill? Would Ox benefit from a multi-cloud strategy? This field-based case, which is used in Darden's “Digital Operations” course, includes an overview of cloud computing's history and types; student and instructor spreadsheets with an interactive cost estimating model are also available.

Excerpt

UVA-OM-1734

Jan. 10, 2022

In the Cloud

As Charu Thomas, cofounder and CEO of Ox, waited for her tea to brew, she reflected on how quickly the three years had passed since she had founded Ox, a software solution that helped retailers improve online order fulfillment. As with most start-ups, scaling the business took time and perseverance, but she was proud of the positive feedback from beta customers, the press, and investors. Now, in the summer of 2021, she had partnered with a major multinational retailer, and the outlook was positive for additional business. Thomas felt the opportunities in the customer funnel were on track to meet her revenue projections, and she could turn her attention to the other side of profitability's double-edged sword: costs. On her agenda this week was a comprehensive review of Ox's cost structure and how it compared to competitors.

As Thomas started her analysis, she quickly realized that the line item she had the most questions about was cloud hosting and computing costs. Ox was a cloud-native company, meaning its software was built and relied fully on cloud services. When Thomas and her team had first started working with developers, they had chosen a cloud provider based on capabilities and speed to build; cost hadn't been the primary consideration. But now, Thomas wondered if Ox's payments were on par with similarly sized start-ups. Fortunately, she had developed strong connections with fellow entrepreneurs. She reached for her phone and started typing messages to other start-up founders via text and LinkedIn. It wasn't long before responses began to trickle in, and Thomas realized Ox was paying 10 times what she expected to pay at scale. Surely, reassessing this line item would be one of

Keywords: cloud computing, software, online order fulfillment, cloud native, cost analysis, competitive cost analysis, start-up, entrepreneur, operations strategy, digital operations, online shopping, order picking optimization, augmented reality, AR, machine learning, ML, artificial intelligence, AI, workforce optimization, rapid fulfillment, software-as-a-service, SaaS, scale, competitive advantage

Suggested Citation:

Laseter, Timothy M. and Coughenour, Alyssa and Webb, Jane, In the Cloud. Darden Case No. UVA-OM-1734, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014644
Purchase - $6.25
36 References
Andy Patrizio
Research Finds One-Third of Data Center Servers Are Idle
ComputerWorld Posted: 2015-06-10
Johann Schleier-Smith , Vikram Sreekanti , Anurag Khandelwal , Joao Carreira , J Neeraja , Yadwadkar , Ada Raluca , Joseph E Popa , Ion Gonzalez , David A Stoica , Patterson
What Serverless Computing Is and Should Become: The Next Phase of Cloud Computing
Communications of the ACM , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 76 - 84 Posted: 2021-05
Andrew Mcafee
What Every CEO Needs to Know about the Cloud , volume 89 , p. 124 - 132 Posted: 2011-11
Thor Olavsrud
Cloud Migration: Understanding What It Is and How It Can Transform Your Business
Hosting and Cloud Computing Market Size Worldwide 2010-2020 , volume 34 Posted: 2015-08-14
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
836
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies