Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Performance and Capabilities to Analyze Big Data: Do the Ambidexterity and Business Value of Big Data Analytics Matter

Business Process Management Journal, 2021

23 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2022

Ahmad Ibrahim Aljumah

College of Communication and Media Alain University Abu Dhabi Campus, P.O. Box 112612, Abu Dhabi, UAE.

Mohammed T. Nuseir

College of Business Alain University Abu Dhabi Campus, P.O. Box 112612, Abu Dhabi, UAE

Md. Mahmudul Alam

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Economics, Finance and Banking

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Objective/Purpose: The aim of the study is to examine the impact of the big data analytics capabilities (BDAC) on the organizational performance. The study also examines the mediating role of ambidexterity and the moderating role of business value of big data (BVBD) analytics in the relationship between the big data analytics capabilities and the organizational performance.

Methodology/Design: This study collected primary data based on a questionnaire survey among the large manufacturing firms operating in UAE. A total of 650 questionnaires were distributed among the manufacturing firms and 295 samples were used for final data analysis. The survey was conducted from September to November in 2019 and partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM).

Findings: The BDA scalability is supported by the findings on the performance of firm and its determinants such as system, value of business, and quality of information. The role of business value as a moderator and ambidexterity as mediator are found significant. The results reveal that there is a need for managers to consider the business value and quality dynamics as crucial strategic objectives to achieve high performance of the firm.

Implications: The study has significant policy implication for practitioners and researchers for understanding the issues related to big data analytics.

Originality/Value: This is an original study based on primary data from UAE manufacturing firms.


Keywords: Big data, big data analytics, organizational performance, manufacturing industry, ambidexterity, business value of big data, UAE

Suggested Citation:

Ibrahim Aljumah, Ahmad and T. Nuseir, Mohammed and Alam, Md. Mahmudul, Organizational Performance and Capabilities to Analyze Big Data: Do the Ambidexterity and Business Value of Big Data Analytics Matter (2021). Business Process Management Journal, 2021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
S Akter , S F Wamba , A Gunasekaran , R Dubey , S J Childe
How to improve firm performance using big data analytics capability and business strategy alignment?
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 182 , p. 113 - 131 Posted: 2016
S Akter , R Bandara , U Hani , S Fosso , C Foropon
Analytics-based decisionmaking for service systems: A qualitative study and agenda for future research
International Journal of Information Management , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 95 Posted: 2019
A Amado , P Cortez , P Rita , S Moro
Research trends on Big Data in Marketing: A text mining and topic modeling based literature analysis
European Research on Management and Business Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2018
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
722
RANK
333,065
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies