Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning-by-Doing: The Experience Effect in Mergers and Acquisitions

Published, Accounting & Finance, 2021

56 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022

Chen Cai

Lehigh University - College of Business

Huimin Li

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Haigang Zhou

Cleveland State University - Nance College of Business Administration

Abstract

We examine the relation between firms’ prior acquisition experience and subsequent acquisition performance. Based on our sample firms’ complete acquisition histories, we find that acquirers with prior experience in the target industry perform better in subsequent diversifying acquisitions, and that the effect is stronger in industries with higher uncertainty. The outperformance is attributable to experienced acquirers’ ability to identify targets with higher synergies. Additional analysis shows that the experience effect is robust after controlling for management experience and other firm-specific factors, and that considering small acquisitions as part of a firm’s learning process is essential to the experience effect.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, Learning-by-doing, Serial acquirers

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Chen and Li, Huimin and Zhou, Haigang, Learning-by-Doing: The Experience Effect in Mergers and Acquisitions. Published, Accounting & Finance, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4015586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
K R Ahern
Markets talk, firms listen: The dynamics of repeat acquirers Posted: 2007
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Serial acquirer bidding: An empirical test of the learning hypothesis
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , p. 18 - 31 Posted: 2011
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Learning from repetitive acquisitions: Evidence from the time between deals
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
572,087
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies