Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual Holders and Leveraged Buyouts

34 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022

Ali Taatian

Stevens Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 23, 2022

Abstract

We find a channel through which debt holders can affect corporate transactions. We show that firms with high-debt dual holders (holders of both debt and equity of the firm) are less likely to be a target of an LBO deal because LBO is costly for debt holders. Nevertheless, if a firm with dual holding accepts an LBO deal, the debt owned by the dual holders functions as a costly signal, and the deal is expected to have a higher quality and, hence, higher price.

Keywords: leverage buyout, abnormal return, dual holding

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Taatian, Ali, Dual Holders and Leveraged Buyouts (January 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4015582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4015582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Anton , L X Lin
The mutual friend: Dual holder monitoring and firm investment efficiency
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 81 - 115 Posted: 2020
U Axelson , T Jenkinson , P Strömberg , M Weisbach
Leverage and pricing in buyouts: An empirical analysis Posted: 2007
U Axelson , T Jenkinson , P Stromberg , M S Weisbach
Borrow cheap, buy high? the determinants of leverage and pricing in buyouts
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 2223 - 2267 Posted: 2013
L C Baran , T.-H D King
Going private transactions, bondholder returns, and wealth transfer effects
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 34 , p. 1856 - 1872 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
552,669
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies