Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Skill and Accounting Conservatism

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2022 Last revised: 30 Nov 2023

Jeff Zeyun Chen

Texas Christian University

Youngki Jang

University of Delaware

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Minyoung Noh

California State University, Los Angeles - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 25, 2022

Abstract

We examine the role of labor market frictions in shaping firms’ accounting policies. We find that firms’ reliance on high-skill labor is negatively related to accounting conservatism, presumably because higher labor adjustment costs make conservative accounting policies more costly. Cross-sectional tests further support the notion that labor adjustment costs are the main driver for the negative relation between labor skill and accounting conservatism. Specifically, the negative relation is more pronounced when a firm i) operates in more competitive industries, ii) has a higher voluntary employee turnover rate, and iii) is more financially constrained. Finally, we show that the positive implication of accounting conservatism for future operating performance and cost of debt is weaker for firms requiring high labor skill, providing plausible explanations for a negative relation between labor skill and accounting conservatism. Collectively, we provide novel evidence on the relation between labor force heterogeneity and accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Labor skill, conservatism, labor adjustment costs, competition, employee turnover, financial constrain

JEL Classification: G30, J01, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jeff Zeyun and Jang, Youngki and Jung, Boochun and Noh, Minyoung, Labor Skill and Accounting Conservatism (January 25, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4017970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4017970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in monitoring managers' investment decisions
Accounting and Finance , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 609 - 633 Posted: 2011
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' Demand for Conservatism: Evidence from Changes in Directors' Fiduciary Duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,730
RANK
170,545
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies