Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deposit Insurance and Financial Intermediaries: Impacts on the Market Discipline of the Brazilian Banking Industry

54 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2022

Marília Pinheiro Ohlson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gerlando Augusto Sampaio Franco de Lima

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; University of São Paulo

Tony Takeda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study seeks to assess the phenomenon of market discipline in Brazil and analyze whether the increase in deposit insurance coverage in 2013 and the role of financial intermediaries in the funding market changed this discipline. The database includes accounting information of Brazilian banks from 2010 to 2017. We calculated the parameters using the Systemic Generalized Method of Moments (GMM-Sys). We found evidence of market discipline through the cost of funding and maturity, with the size of banks and their capitalization being the main disciplining factors. Deposit insurance has reduced market discipline for both price and maturity mechanisms, while intermediaries have reduced the size and capitalization advantages of banks. The results did not indicate the existence of market discipline through the quantity mechanism and deposit insurance did not change this scenario. Brokerage firms also reduced the size and capitalization advantages of this mechanism. However, significant indicators in the market discipline literature, mainly related to banks' credit portfolios, were not relevant in the Brazilian market, indicating that discipline might be reinforced. The results were similar in the analysis excluding “too-big-to-fail” banks, with slightly higher parameters, indicating that the discipline is stronger for smaller banks.

Keywords: Market Discipline. Banking supervision. Financial intermediation. Deposit insurance.

Suggested Citation:

Pinheiro Ohlson, Marília and Lima, Gerlando Augusto Sampaio Franco de and Takeda, Tony, Deposit Insurance and Financial Intermediaries: Impacts on the Market Discipline of the Brazilian Banking Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4017121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4017121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
F Allen , E Carletti , A Leonello
Deposit insurance and risk taking
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 464 - 478 Posted: 2011
D Anginer , A Demirguc-Kunt , M Zhu
How does deposit insurance affect bank risk? Evidence from the recent crisis
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 48 , p. 312 - 321 Posted: 2014
A Angkinand , C Wihlborg
Deposit insurance coverage, ownership, and banks' risk taking in emerging markets
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 29 , p. 252 - 274 Posted: 2010
A F Aysan , M Disli , M Duygun , H Ozturk
Islamic banks, deposit insurance reform, and market discipline: Evidence from a natural framework
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 166 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
RANK
856,579
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies