Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Deadly Is Financial Leverage? Evidence from Care Homes during the COVID-19 Crisis

Management Science, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2024

Peter Morris

Independent

Ludovic Phalippou

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Betty H.T. Wu

University of Glasgow Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: January 25, 2022

Abstract

Once information about leasing and corporate structure is incorporated into the way financial leverage is calculated, care homes controlled by private equity firms no longer display higher COVID-19 death rates. Death rates become strongly related instead to financial leverage. Highly levered care home groups have a death rate twice as high as that of unlevered care home groups before the government provided financial support (i.e., during the first wave), and afterwards death rates are similar. Highly levered care home groups cut costs more aggressively and experienced the largest drop in cash reserves. Our results illustrate the importance of accurately measuring financial flexibility.

Note:
Funding: None to declare.

Declaration of Interests: None to declare.



Suggested Citation:

Morris, Peter and Phalippou, Ludovic and Wu, Betty H.T., How Deadly Is Financial Leverage? Evidence from Care Homes during the COVID-19 Crisis (January 25, 2022). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4017507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4017507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M Adelino , K Lewellen , W Mccartney , Ben
Hospital Financial Health and Clinical Choices: Evidence from the Financial Crisis
Manage Sci , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 2098 - 2119 Posted: 2022
C Aghamolla , P Karaca-Mandic , X Li , R T Thakor
Merchants of death: The effect of credit supply shocks on hospital outcomes
American Economic Review (Forthcoming) Posted: 2024
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S S Pandit , H H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
792
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,851
RANK
72,005
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies