Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognising Sustainability through the Corporate Reports – A Review of Development of Disclosures in India

International Journal of Advanced Research 2021, 9(07), 416–429.

14 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022

Priyanka Nayak

Srinivas University

Narayan Kayarkatte

Srinivas University

Date Written: 25, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: The stride of Sustainability has led to a new form of reporting called Sustainability Reporting. This form of reporting is being widely accepted and has recently surged amongst Indian corporates and researchers. This paper tries studying the evolution of Sustainability Reporting and its development In Indian context. It also attempts to identify the gaps in the available literature, for further research in this area.

Design/Methodology: Using the literature published between 2011 and 2020 review is conducted in various aspects of Sustainability Reporting in India.

Findings: As Sustainability Reporting became popular in India only two decades back, there are several gaps in the study in this area, leading to abundant dimensions for future research. The role of Policymakers, Regulators and Academicians in development of best practices in reporting also is highlighted.

Practical implication: This study shall give a historical perspective of Sustainability Reporting in India and help researchers focus their study on critical areas that need to be researched.

Originality/Value: Sustainability Reporting has drawn a large number of attentions amongst the financial stakeholders. There are several research/review being undertaken in this field. However, a review of the development of studies of Sustainability Reporting in India is one of its kinds. No previous research was found which systematically incorporates evolution and development of Sustainability Reporting in Indian context.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, GRI, Environment reporting, CSR, Governance disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Nayak, Priyanka and Kayarkatte, Narayan, Recognising Sustainability through the Corporate Reports – A Review of Development of Disclosures in India (25, 2021). International Journal of Advanced Research 2021, 9(07), 416–429., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4017010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4017010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure in Developed and Developing Countries: A Literature Review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
M Arif , A Sajjad , S Farooq , M Abrar , A S Joyo
The impact of audit committee attributes on the quality and quantity of environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosures. Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2020
V Balachandran , S Saranya
CSR towards sustainable development under the Companies Act
International Journal of Advanced Research in Management and Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 28 - 40 Posted: 2013
R Bhalla , C S K Bansal
Corporate sustainability reporting: a study of economic sustainability aspect by selected Indian corporations
International Journal of Current Research and Academic Review , volume 2 , issue 5 , p. 37 - 46 Posted: 2014
Load more
7 Citations
Velita Sibon Lobo , K. Shivshankar Bhat
Quantitative Evaluation of Youth Audience in Local Media through ABCD Analysis
International Journal of Management, Technology, and Social Sciences , p. 128 Posted: 2023
Crossref
G. Nandini Prabhu , P. S. Aithal
Quantitative ABCD Analysis of Green Banking Practices and its Impact on Using Green Banking Products
International Journal of Applied Engineering and Management Letters , p. 28 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Bharathi , Prasad Mahale
Quantitative ABCD Analysis of Ayurvedic Products and Their Impact on Trust
International Journal of Case Studies in Business, IT, and Education , p. 198 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Ashwini V. , P. S. Aithal
Quantitative ABCD Analysis: Consumers’ Purchase Intention for Eco-friendly Bags
International Journal of Management, Technology, and Social Sciences , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
684
RANK
413,842
7 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies