Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Cost Behavior of Family Managers by Generation: Evidence from Private Colleges and Universities

36 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 13 Mar 2023

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Date Written: March 12, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates how generations of family managers who are distant from the founder of an organization influence labor cost behaviors. Data from family-managed private colleges and universities (family PC&Us) where the founder and/or their descendants hold top positions on the board are analyzed. Previous studies have demonstrated that managers generally maintain labor costs even when sales decline because of high adjustment costs and other economic factors, leading to sticky cost behaviors. In particular, family founders tend to perceive more reputation costs based on socio-emotional wealth. Thus, they are more willing to avoid reputation costs associated with behavior, which goes against the interests of other stakeholders, such as employees. However, as next generations take over, family managers decrease their focus on family reputation and become more concerned with their personal objectives. Thus, this study expects that the degree of sticky labor cost behaviors is more weakly associated with second-, third-, or subsequent-generation family PC&Us than with first-generation family PC&Us. Our empirical results, based on data from 2,995 PC&U-years and 1,284 matched PC&U-years, on the basis of propensity score matching support the hypotheses, contributing to accounting and family business research.

Keywords: labor cost, cost asymmetry, family firm, reputation costs

JEL Classification: I23, L31, M41, M48, H83

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto, Labor Cost Behavior of Family Managers by Generation: Evidence from Private Colleges and Universities (March 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4017677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4017677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A K Achleitner , N Günther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real earnings management and accrual-based earnings management in family firms
Eur. Acc. Rev , volume 23 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
J. Acc. Econ , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
P G Altbach , E Choi , M R Allen
The Global Phenomenon of Family-Owned or Managed Universities Posted: 2019
M C Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S N Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
J. Acc. Aud. Fin , volume 22 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
801
RANK
418,259
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies