Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Women and Ethics Committees on Firms’ Value and Financial Performance

Daniele Romanin Da Silva Cunha, André Aroldo Freitas De Moura & Poliano Bastos da Cruz (2022) Impact of women and ethics committees on firms’ value and financial performance, The International Journal of Human Resource Management, DOI: 10.1080/09585192.2021.2013923

27 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2022

Daniele Romanin Da Silva Cunha

FUCAPE Business School

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Poliano Bastos Da Cruz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 5, 2021

Abstract

The literature on the impact of gender diversity on firms’ value and performance is mixed. To shed light on these mixed results, we consider that other mechanisms in place, such as committees, could help gender diversity prosper. We investigate the joint effects of whether women acting on the corporate board or as executive officers, and the presence of an ethics and compliance committee (ECC), impact on firms’ value and financial performance. Our identification strategy covers three different methods (i) system GMM, (ii) generalized structural equation model approach, and (iii) propensity score matching approach. The results show that firms’ value and performance increase when a woman is in the corporate board or as an executive officer, and the firm has an ECC. Unlike previous literature, we show that ECCs, further than just a monitoring mechanism, support minority groups (women), and this has second-order effects on firms’ value and performance. Besides, we provide evidence for practitioners to foster the increase of quotas for women in top executive roles and consider fostering the creation of ECCs.

Keywords: Gender Diversity; Corporate Board; Ethics and Compliance Committee; Financial Performance; Firms’ value.

Suggested Citation:

Cunha, Daniele Romanin Da Silva and De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Da Cruz, Poliano Bastos, Impact of Women and Ethics Committees on Firms’ Value and Financial Performance (October 5, 2021). Daniele Romanin Da Silva Cunha, André Aroldo Freitas De Moura & Poliano Bastos da Cruz (2022) Impact of women and ethics committees on firms’ value and financial performance, The International Journal of Human Resource Management, DOI: 10.1080/09585192.2021.2013923, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4018364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
S Abdullah , K Ismail , L Nachum
Does having women on boards create value? The impact of societal perceptions and corporate governance in emerging markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 466 - 476 Posted: 2016
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R V Aguilera , R Crespi-Cladera
Global corporate governance: On the relevance of firms' ownership structure
Journal of World Business , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 2016
J S Baixauli-Soler , M Belda-Ruiz , G Sanchez-Marin
Executive stock options, gender diversity in the top management team, and firm risk taking
Journal of Business Research , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 451 - 463 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
315,603
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies