Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Justice Good as Random?

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2022-05

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2022

90 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2022 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Kristoph Kleiner

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Finance

Niklas Hüther (Huether)

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: January 27, 2022

Abstract

The random assignment of judges/examiners to cases promotes fairness and is routinely exploited for causal identification across social sciences. Analyzing Chapter 11 bankruptcies, we find judicial assignment is not random, but predicted by hedge funds. In our setting, judges decide whether to convert bankruptcies to liquidation, reducing unsecured creditor recovery. Relative to secured hedge funds, cases involving unsecured hedge fund creditors (and hedge fund equity holders) are assigned judges with lower past conversion rates and higher unsecured creditor recovery rates. Effects are greatest when hedge funds are experienced, invested recently, or have connections with/control of the debtor. Extending the analysis, we find experienced legal council can similarly influence assignment. To explain our findings, we show judges are not assigned consecutive large cases, yet most bankruptcy lawyers are unaware of these dynamics; knowledgeable parties can then judge-shop by altering the exact date of filing. We demonstrate the need for control variables and bounded IV specifications when exploiting judge/examiner designs in the presence of sophisticated players.

Keywords: Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, Random Assignment of Judges, Hedge Funds

JEL Classification: G23, G33, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Kleiner, Kristoph and Hüther, Niklas, Justice Good as Random? (January 27, 2022). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2022-05, Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4019420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
David S Abrams , Marianne Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Do judges vary in their treatment of race?
The Journal of Legal Studies , volume 41 , p. 347 - 383 Posted: 2012
Joshua D Angrist , Guido W Imbens , Donald B Rubin
Identification of causal effects using instrumental variables
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 91 , p. 444 - 455 Posted: 1996
Samuel Antill
Do the right firms survive bankruptcy?
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2021
Aloisio Araujo , Rafael Ferreira
The labor effects of judicial bias in bankruptcy
Spyridon Lagaras, Flavio Moraes, Jacopo Ponticelli, and Margarita Tsoutsoura , volume 150 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
901
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,314
RANK
60,468
3 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies