Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Case Study: The Distilling of a Biased Algorithmic Decision System through a Business Lens

35 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2022

Merve Hickok

AIethicist.org

Colleen Dorsey

University of St Thomas

Tim O'Brien

Master of Jurisprudence

Dorothea Baur

Baur Consulting

Katrina Ingram

University of Alberta

Chhavi Chauhan

The American Society for Investigative Pathology

Attlee Gamundani

United Nations University Institute in Macau; Namibia University of Science and Technology

Date Written: January 28, 2022

Abstract

Technological advances embedded within algorithmic decision systems are being deployed every day. Some of these investments are unquestionably worthwhile, while some others prioritize commercialization of technology ahead of societal impact. The article uses a real-world case from the healthcare sector to demonstrate the design and governance shortfalls of an algorithmic tool through its lifecycle. The healthcare sector sits on a mine of data, making it one of the most lucrative fields for big data–based analytics. However, the remunerative healthcare sector is particularly sensitive to the quality of data and algorithmic design decisions, making it paramount for all stakeholders to safely and ethically develop, deploy and implement the algorithmic tools. Otherwise, these systems can have detrimental effects on the life, well-being, and safety of patients. The authors provide guidance on responsible and sustainable deployment practices applicable across industries. The systematic dissection of this case can be applied to different systems across different domains like employment, credit scoring, housing, education, criminal justice, and many others. Every business automating and streamlining processes and core functions through digital transformation needs to implement new accountability and governance mechanisms and invest in the inevitable culture change necessary.

Keywords: algorithmic decision, artificial intelligence, automated decision, bias, discrimination, ethics, accountability, algorithm, governance

JEL Classification: I14, I18, M14, M48, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Hickok, Merve and Dorsey, Colleen and O'Brien, Tim and Baur, Dorothea and Ingram, Katrina and Chauhan, Chhavi and Gamundani, Attlee, Case Study: The Distilling of a Biased Algorithmic Decision System through a Business Lens (January 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4019672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Rachel Metz
How one employee's exit shook Google and the AI industry Posted: 2021
Natasha Singer
Amazon Faces Investor Pressure Over Facial Recognition
NY Times Posted: 2019
Id
Jeffrey Dastin
Amazon extends moratorium on police use of facial recognition software Posted: 2021-05-18
Load more
2 Citations
Merve Hickok
Public procurement of artificial intelligence systems: new risks and future proofing
AI & SOCIETY , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1213 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Merve Hickok , Nestor Maslej
A policy primer and roadmap on AI worker surveillance and productivity scoring tools
AI and Ethics , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 673 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,006
RANK
144,163
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies