Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual-Class Shares, Corporate Innovation, and the Life Cycle of Firms: International Evidence

43 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2022

Julian Atanassov

University of Nebraska

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Ivalina Kalcheva

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Finance

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Date Written: January 27, 2016

Abstract

Theoretically, dual-class ownership can promote innovation by increasing managerial flexibility and tolerance to failure. Yet, it can also inhibit it by promoting managerial entrenchment and misbehavior. Using hand-collected firm-level international data, we document an overall negative impact of dual-class structure and the voting premium on corporate innovation. Upon closer examination, however, we demonstrate that the relationship depends on the firms’ lifecycle – it is positive for younger and negative for older firms. The effects are mitigated by alternative governance mechanisms. We mitigate potential endogeneity by exploiting an exogenous shock due to the staggered introduction of corporate board reforms across countries.

Keywords: dual-class ownership structure, innovation, patents, corporate governance, ownership, shareholders, private benefits of control, voting premium

JEL Classification: D9, E7, G

Suggested Citation:

Atanassov, Julian and Hong, Hyun A. and Kalcheva, Ivalina and Ryou, Jiwoo, Dual-Class Shares, Corporate Innovation, and the Life Cycle of Firms: International Evidence (January 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4019652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , U Akcigit , P Howitt
What do we learn from Schumpeterian growth theory
Handbook of economic growth , volume 2 , p. 515 - 563 Posted: 2014
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
H V Almeida , D Wolfenzon
A theory of pyramidal ownership and family business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 2637 - 2680 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,009
RANK
366,257
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies