Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybridity in a Hotel Chain: Designing a Package of Controls to Sustain a Hybrid Mission

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 35, Issue 8, pp. 1862-1891, 2022

Posted: 10 Mar 2022 Last revised: 25 Oct 2022

Lies Bouten

Iéseg School of Management

Sophie Hoozée

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Date Written: January 26, 2022

Abstract

Purpose - While prior control studies typically focus on organizations with an instrumental approach to corporate sustainability, this study concentrates on organizations with an integrative approach, as the latter is needed to address the grand challenge of sustainable development. As such organizations do not single out the financial objective as the dominant one, they pursue a hybrid mission. This study investigates how a control package can be designed that ensures the persistence of such a hybrid mission.

Design/methodology/approach - A case study is undertaken at a luxury hotel chain in which a financial and an environmental objective are continuously balanced. Self-determination theory is used to substantiate insights into how psychological need-supportive controls can be designed at all organizational levels.

Findings - This study highlights how controls are not only needed to direct staff behaviour towards the environmental objective, but also to ensure that staff at all organizational levels prioritize the objectives in such way that the hybrid mission can be sustained. Besides structural differentiation and centralization of decision-making, the case organization designed need-supportive controls to foster staff’s internalization of the environmental objective and value as well as of the integrative approach.

Originality - This study provides a unique account of a control package directing staff behaviour towards the balancing of multiple objectives.

Social implications - As the need-supportive socialization process fostered staff’s integration of the environmental value, this study highlights the transformational potential of controls.

Keywords: Control package, hotel chain, hybrid organization, internalization, structural differentiation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bouten, Lies and Hoozée, Sophie, Hybridity in a Hotel Chain: Designing a Package of Controls to Sustain a Hybrid Mission (January 26, 2022). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 35, Issue 8, pp. 1862-1891, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019019
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies