Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillunder Effect of Intrusion on Task Performance and the Role of Feedback in Sequential Task Environments

Posted: 31 Jan 2022 Last revised: 3 Oct 2022

Anil Kshatriya

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School

Hari Ramasubramanian

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Date Written: December 15, 2021

Abstract

Our study investigates the role of cognitive intrusion in a multiple task environment. We examine whether information about future tasks negatively affect the performance on current task. We also examine whether frequent feedback on the current task can mitigate the negative effect. Drawing upon the theory of intrusion we predict and find that when employees are informed about a forthcoming task, they tend to perform poorly on their current task owing to the attention depletion caused by unfulfilled tasks. We further predict and find that the negative effect of unfulfilled tasks is mitigated when frequent feedback is provided on the performance of current task. In additional analyses we find the indirect effect of intrusion on task performance through attention depletion. We contribute to the literature on performance management and offer practical insights on the design of control systems for directing employee attention in sequential task environments.

Keywords: multitasking, cognitive intrusions, goal fulfillment, feedback frequency, performance

JEL Classification: C91; D83; D91; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kshatriya, Anil and Ramasubramanian, Hari, The Spillunder Effect of Intrusion on Task Performance and the Role of Feedback in Sequential Task Environments (December 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4020266
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
389
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies