Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Experience, Managerial Overconfidence and Investment Efficiency: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in China

57 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022

Ying Hao

Chongqing University

Abstract

We examine the impact of CEOs’ early-life and career experiences on corporate investment efficiency in the Chinese economy. We identify two extraordinary events that are likely to underpin the formative experiences of CEOs, comprising of the economic reforms which commenced in 1978, and prior career experiences of CEOs. We show that CEOs who experienced the economic reforms in their early adult life (RO-CEOs) tend to be more confident and have a tendency towards overinvestment than those who grew up during the era of the planned economy (PE-CEOs). Furthermore, CEOs who have their whole career in the business sectors (BS-CEOs) are found to exhibit greater levels of confidence and overinvestment than those with long-term public administration experience (PS-CEOs) prior to serving as corporate executives. Taking the two effects together, RE-CEOs who are also BS-CEOs tend to be more overconfident than PE-CEOs who are also PS-CEOs.

Keywords: Career experience, Early-life experience, Investment efficiency, Managerial overconfidence, Reform and opening up policy.

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Ying, CEO Experience, Managerial Overconfidence and Investment Efficiency: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4021697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4021697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Alesina , N Fuchs-Schündeln
Goodbye Lenin (or not?): The effect of communism on people's preferences'
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 1507 - 1528 Posted: 2007
M D Alicke , M L Klotz , D L Breitenbecher , T J Yurak , D S Vredenburg
Personal Contact, Individuation and the Better-than-Average Effect
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 68 , p. 804 - 825 Posted: 1995
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, Finance and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
C.-E Bai , J Lu , Z Tao
The Multi-task Theory of State Enterprise Reform: Empirical Evidence from China
American Economic Review , volume 96 , p. 353 - 357 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
302,262
2 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies