Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Pay Disparities within Top Management on Conservative Reporting

Accepted for publication in Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming

Posted: 30 Mar 2022

Mahmoud Gad

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Trang Nguyen

University of Bristol

Mariano Scapin

University of Bristol Business School

Date Written: January 30, 2022

Abstract

We study the effect of the pay gap between the chief executive officer (CEO) and the next layer of executives in the top management team (TMT) - a proxy for promotion-based tournament incentives - on conditional conservatism in financial reporting. We find that higher levels of tournament incentives are associated with less conservative financial reports. Our results hold in an instrumental variable (IV) analysis and regressions using alternative measures of both pay gap and accounting conservatism. Furthermore, we find that senior executives’ engagement in tournaments for promotion is affected by their perceived probability of success. Specifically, the negative relationship between the pay gap and conservatism is stronger (weaker) when the CEO is more (less) likely to be replaced. Overall, our results indicate that pay disparities within the TMT play an important role in financial reporting.

Keywords: Conservatism, financial reporting, pay gap, tournament incentives, promotion, senior management, executive compensation, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30, J31, M41, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Gad, Mahmoud and Nguyen, Trang and Scapin, Mariano, The Effect of Pay Disparities within Top Management on Conservative Reporting (January 30, 2022). Accepted for publication in Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4021570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies