Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Cares When Value (Mis)reporting May Be Found Out?

CEIS Working Paper No. 531

51 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2022

Daniela Teresa di Cagno

LUISS Guido Carli

Werner Güth

Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods; Luiss Guido Carli University

Tim Lohse

Berlin School of Economics and Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE)

Francesca Marazzi

CEIS, University of Rome Tor Vergata

Lorenzo Spadoni

University of Cassino and Southern Lazio

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

In an ultimatum bargaining, we investigate lying as falsely stating what one privately knows without, however, excluding that others find out the truth. Specifically, we modify the Acquiring-a-Company game. Privately informed sellers send messages about the alleged value of their company to potential buyers. Via random information leaks, they can also learn the true value before proposing a price which the seller finally accepts or not. Two-thirds of all sellers exaggerate the company’s value (especially if the true value is small) but increasing the leak probability surprisingly only mildly increases truth telling. Instead, it reduces the size of the lies. Moreover, it decreases overreporting (exaggerating the value to sell at a higher price) but increases underreporting (stating values below the actual ones to increases chances of trade). Buyers who found out value misreporting anchor their price proposals on the true value but do not explicitly discriminate against liars. In contrast, sellers are fully opportunistic and make their acceptance decision mainly dependent on whether the resulting payoff is positive. Thus, morality concerns do not seem to matter much in this market exchange. Altogether probabilistic leaks enhance trade and welfare what suggests to politically facilitate and encourage e.g. whistle blowing.

Keywords: Acquiring-a-company experiments, Information leaks, Cheap talk (Not) Lying, Ultimatum bargaining

JEL Classification: C78, C91, D83, D91

Suggested Citation:

di Cagno, Daniela Teresa and Güth, Werner and Lohse, Tim and Marazzi, Francesca and Spadoni, Lorenzo, Who Cares When Value (Mis)reporting May Be Found Out? (January 31, 2022). CEIS Working Paper No. 531, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4022439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4022439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
K Abbink , K Wu
Reward self-reporting to deter corruption: An experiment on mitigating collusive bribery
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 133 , p. 256 - 272 Posted: 2017
J Abeler , D Nosenzo , C Raymond
Preferences for truth-telling
Econometrica , volume 87 , issue 4 , p. 1115 - 1153 Posted: 2019
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Uncertainty in economics , p. 235 - 251 Posted: 1978
N Anbarcı , N Feltovich , M Y
Lying about the price? ultimatum bargaining with messages and imperfectly observed offers
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 116 , p. 346 - 360 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
761
RANK
697,608
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEIS: Centre for Economic & International Studies Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies