Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankers' Pay and the Evolving Structure of US Banking

64 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2022 Last revised: 18 Jan 2024

Ronald W. Anderson

London School of Economics & Political Science - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - Xinhua College

Karin Jõeveer

Tallinn University of Technology (TUT)

Date Written: January 26, 2022

Abstract

We study the evolution of pay in US bank holding companies since 1986. We first set out the main empirical characteristics in both cross-section and time series focussing on banking structure (size and concentration) and pay characteristics given by labor's share of bank value-added, the level of an average bankers' real compensation and the sensitivity of that compensation to firm performance. Then we introduce a structural model in which bankers of heterogenous talent are matched with banks where shareholders design compensation contracts so as to maximise shareholder payoff in the face of managerial moral hazard. We calibrate this model to see if it provides an internally consistent account of the observed empirical patterns. By incorporating structural changes coinciding with three major changes in banking regulation we are able to reproduce changes in pay level and pay sensitivity observed and to establish a secular decline in labor's share consistent with a superstar firm effect in US banking. Overall we find that the observed pay fits closely to fair pay as predicted by our equilibrium model.

Keywords: executive compensation, banking industry structure, rent extraction, superstar firms, regulation

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, J31

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Ronald W. and Jõeveer, Karin, Bankers' Pay and the Evolving Structure of US Banking (January 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4022036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4022036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
R W Anderson
Firms Run by Talented Humans: Shareholder Value or Rent Extraction?
SSRN , volume 4504312 Posted: 2023
U Axelson , P Bond
Wall Street Occupations
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1949 - 1996 Posted: 2015
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenan
The Fall of the Labor Share and the Rise of Superstar Firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020-05
D Avraham , P Selvaggi , J Vickery
A Structural View of U.S. Bank Holding Companies
FRBNY Economic Policy Review , p. 65 - 81 Posted: 2012-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
832
RANK
511,510
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies