Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Subsidies and Corporate Disclosure

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2022

Ying Huang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

Government subsidies allocated by politicians are ultimately funded by taxpayers, who care about how tax money is spent and demand transparency. I argue that subsidized firms, as beneficiaries of government subsidies, have incentives to provide more disclosures to help politicians achieve a reputation for transparency as well as to lower their own costs from public scrutiny. Using a novel dataset that tracks government subsidies, I provide the first large-sample evidence on the relation between government subsidies and firm disclosure. I find that relative to unsubsidized firms, subsidized firms provide more voluntary disclosures of general information about their business activities and profitability, as well as more disclosures of subsidy-goal-related information, such as job creation and capital investment. Further, these associations are stronger for firms operating in or obtaining subsidies from states whose politicians reveal a stronger preference for subsidy transparency, and for firms that are more likely to attract public scrutiny.

Keywords: Political incentives; government subsidies; corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, H25

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Ying, Government Subsidies and Corporate Disclosure (January 31, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4022682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
C Anilowski , M Feng , D Skinner
Does Earnings Guidance Affect Market Returns? The Nature and Information Content of Aggregate Earnings Guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
The Politics of Government Resource Allocation: Evidence from U.S. State Government Awarded Economic Incentives Posted: 2021
F Bannister , R Connolly
Trust and Transformational Government: A Proposed Framework for Research
Government Information Quarterly , volume 28 , p. 137 - 147 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,796
RANK
88,637
41 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies