Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Liability, Litigation Risk, and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment in the U.S.

Posted: 2 Feb 2022

Luofan Bu

Hong Kong Baptist University – Department of Accountancy and Law

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Exploiting the staggered changes in state-level auditor third-party liability in the U.S. as an exogenous shock, we examine the role that auditor litigation risk plays in shaping corporate tax avoidance. We find that firms significantly reduce their tax avoidance after an exogenous increase in their auditors’ litigation risk. The impact of increased auditor litigation risk on corporate tax avoidance is stronger for firms audited by Big N auditors, firms with higher ex ante litigation risk, firms covered by more analysts, and court rulings relating to tax account misrepresentation. Additional evidence implies that the reduction in corporate tax avoidance after an increase in auditor litigation risk is associated with improvements to firms’ financial reporting transparency and information environment. We document a plausibly causal effect of auditor litigation risk on corporate tax policies.

Keywords: Auditor Liability; Corporate Tax Avoidance; Litigation Risk

JEL Classification: H26; K40; M42

Suggested Citation:

Bu, Luofan and Chen, Yangyang and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhou, Gaoguang, Auditor Liability, Litigation Risk, and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment in the U.S. (February 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4023283
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies