Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Walking the Talk: Valuing a Multi-Stakeholder Strategy

20 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022 Last revised: 4 Feb 2022

Ariel Fromer Babcock

Fidelity Investments, Inc.

Nathan Barrymore

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Christopher Bruno

The Wharton School, Management Department

Allen He

FCLTGlobal

Witold J. Henisz

University of Pennsylvania - Management Department

Xuchong Shao

University of Pennsylvania, Students

Date Written: January 17, 2022

Abstract

Societal expectations of companies are rapidly changing as companies are confronted with wide-ranging responsibilities that extend beyond maximizing near-term shareholder return. Those expectations encompass an expanding list of stakeholders – including the labor force, suppliers, communities, and governments – whose needs increasingly demand consideration.

In response, companies are recognizing the importance of considering key stakeholders in business decisions, but they have struggled to consistently implement practices that support long-term value in a multi-stakeholder context. That lack of consistency in operationalizing a multi-stakeholder strategy has left many investors – and other stakeholders – skeptical of firms that pursue this approach to business.

What does it take to earn a return from implementing a multi-stakeholder strategy and offer a rebuttal to skeptics? To answer this question, we turned toward empirical analysis, comparing the characteristics and performance of companies pursuing various stakeholder-oriented strategies. FCLTGlobal and the ESG Analytics Lab at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, analyzed the annual reports of over 3,000 global companies (drawn from MSCI’s All Country World Index) to look for stakeholder-oriented language, and we compared the presence of that
language with financial, environmental, social and governance (ESG) outcomes. Controlling for sector-specific effects, we found firms that paired strong stakeholder language (“the talk”) with strong performance on material ESG measures (“the walk”) outperformed in the long-term.

Keywords: long term, stakeholder capitalism, stakeholders, investing

JEL Classification: G02, G10, G30, G38, H10, H20, J38, J88, K20, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Babcock, Ariel and Barrymore, Nathan and Bruno, Christopher and He, Allen and Henisz, Witold Jerzy and Shao, Xuchong, Walking the Talk: Valuing a Multi-Stakeholder Strategy (January 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4023510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4023510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,845
RANK
181,327
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies