Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Death is a law: Death of former colleagues and management forecasts

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Yu Flora Kuang

University of Melbourne

Leonard Leye Li

UNSW Sydney

Louise Yi Lu

Australian National University

Bo Qin

The University of Melbourne

Date Written: February 3, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how grief following the death of a CEO’s former colleague affects management forecasts. Our results show that the death of a former colleague is associated with a transient, one-year increase in the pessimism of management forecasts. This effect is amplified when the CEO exhibits a greater resemblance or stronger attachment to the deceased. Further, we also find that the effect is less pronounced for CEOs who are more equipped to handle the negative emotions. Additional tests show that CEOs issue pessimistic management forecasts at a higher frequency and exhibit more pessimistic tones in speech during conference calls after the death event. Moreover, we find that CEOs make a staged recovery as their pessimism in issuing management forecasts appears to last only about one year. Further analysis reveals that a firm’s stock price crash risk significantly decreases following the death event. Overall, this study extends our knowledge of transient factors by showing that grief can affect the bias contained in management forecasts.

Keywords: Grief; Pessimism; Management earnings forecasts; Conference call; Crash risk

JEL Classification: M41; I12

Suggested Citation:

Kuang, Yu and Li, Leonard Leye and Lu, Louise Yi and Qin, Bo, Death is a law: Death of former colleagues and management forecasts (February 3, 2022). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4024703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
524,565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies