Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Silence Golden Sometimes? Management Guidance Withdrawals During the COVID-19 Pandemic

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4024379

64 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Congcong Li

Duquesne University - A.J. Palumbo School of Business Administration

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Xijiang Su

Schulich School of Business, York University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2, 2022

Abstract

The large number of management guidance withdrawals during the COVID-19 pandemic has attracted considerable attention from the media, investors, and regulators. This study analyzes the determinants and consequences of such withdrawals. We find that guidance withdrawals are due to economic uncertainty resulting from firms’ exposure to the COVID-19 pandemic rather than poor financial performance. Also, the effect of COVID-19 exposure on guidance withdrawals is stronger when firms face higher litigation risk. Further, guidance withdrawals result in abnormally large trading volumes and high analyst forecast dispersion but do not negatively affect stock prices or the level of analyst earnings forecasts. Overall, we believe the findings have implications for understanding corporate disclosure practices during periods with heightened economic uncertainty.

Keywords: COVID-19 Pandemic, Economic Uncertainty, Management Guidance, Guidance Withdrawal, Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Li, Congcong and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Su, Xijiang, Is Silence Golden Sometimes? Management Guidance Withdrawals During the COVID-19 Pandemic (February 2, 2022). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4024379, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4024379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4024379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
67,992
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies