Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Rights, Implicit Covenants, and the Quality of Accounting Information

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16844

58 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2022

Assaf Hamdani

Tel Aviv University; Buchman Faculty of Law; Coller School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yevgeny Mugerman

Bar Ilan University

Ruth Rooz

Hebrew University

Nadav Steinberg

Bank of Israel - Research Department

Yishay Yafeh

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

We study a 2013 court decision that enhanced creditor control rights in Israeli firms by allowing them to force companies into bankruptcy. We find that the market expected the court ruling to benefit creditors: bond (equity) prices of companies affected by the new rule responded positively (negatively). We attribute this to the ability of creditors to initiate bankruptcy procedures earlier than in the period before the court ruling. We also observe a pronounced increase in the reported net worth of the firms affected by the new rule. We find evidence suggesting that some firms affected by the new rule increased their net worth by raising more equity. We also find, however, that firms changed their accounting practices, as reflected by an increase in long-term discretionary accruals and a decrease in accounting conservatism. As a result of these accounting changes, we document a decline in the informativeness of the treated firms' financial reports. We conclude that the benefits from creditor control rights may be mitigated by unintended consequences in the form of increased incentives for firms to adopt aggressive accounting practices and, as a result, a reduction in the informativeness of firms' financial reporting.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism, Accruals, bankruptcy, Covenants, Creditor rights, financial distress, Informativeness

JEL Classification: G30, G33, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hamdani, Assaf and Mugerman, Yevgeny and Rooz, Ruth and Steinberg, Nadav and Yafeh, Yishay, Creditor Rights, Implicit Covenants, and the Quality of Accounting Information (December 1, 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16844, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026725
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5
ABSTRACT VIEWS
487
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies