Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New EU Sustainable Strategy and Accounting Practice - Ex-ante Corporate and Auditor Perspectives from Germany

Posted: 22 Apr 2022

Felix Fischer

Salzburg University of Applied Sciences; Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management

Florian Habermann

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management; University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Isabel Mireia Scheucher

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management

Date Written: February 4, 2022

Abstract

This study provides an ex-ante assessment of practitioners’ perception regarding the implementation of the European Union (EU) Taxonomy for Sustainable Actions and the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive proposal. This is important because both EU policies confront corporate decision-makers and auditors with a substantial regulatory change in the accounting and (non-)financial reporting practice. By conducting a series of in-depth interviews with experienced practitioners, we focus on the expected impact, the necessary preparatory measures, and the challenges and opportunities associated with the adopted EU policies. The findings of our semi-structured interviews highlight that practitioners endorse the EU’s intention to roll out mandatory non-financial reporting further (and to link it to financial figures). However, we find that the implementation entails major challenges regarding practical realization. This is because of high complexity and a lack of clarity within the EU policies. Moreover, the respondents highlight quality issues and a lack of experience with non-financial data. Our findings support policymakers and standard setters in identifying ways to harmonise reporting practices, preparers and auditors to arrange adequately for the new regulatory requirements, and academic institutions to adjust their accounting research and curricula to altered demands.

Keywords: Corporate sustainability reporting directive, EU taxonomy, non-financial accounting, non-financial reporting, sustainable finance

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Felix and Habermann, Florian and Scheucher, Isabel Mireia, The New EU Sustainable Strategy and Accounting Practice - Ex-ante Corporate and Auditor Perspectives from Germany (February 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026250
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies