Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Directors’ Duty of Care – Not a Fiduciary Duty of Care

42 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2022

Bamdad Attaran

DLA Piper (Canada) LLP; University of Ottawa; Michigan State University, College of Law

Date Written: December 17, 2021

Abstract

This article addresses the question whether directors’ duty of care is a fiduciary duty. In Delaware and throughout much of the United States, courts and practitioners describe directors’ duty of care as a fiduciary duty. By contrast, Canada and most other common law jurisdictions do not describe directors’ duty of care as a fiduciary duty. Two recent decisions by the Supreme Court of Canada suggest a move by Canadian courts towards recognizing a fiduciary duty of care. In response to these decisions, this article argues that styling directors’ duty of care as a fiduciary duty is not persuasive in the Canadian context. Through a comparative analysis of corporate law in Canada and the United States, this article demonstrates that the Delaware approach to styling directors’ duty of care misconstrues the boundaries of fiduciary law. Furthermore, the Delaware approach obfuscates the important distinction between the duty of care and fiduciary duty of loyalty. In response to these concerns, the article recommends amendments to s.122 of the Canada Business Corporations Act, which identify the important distinction between directors’ duty of care and the fiduciary duty of loyalty.

Keywords: [Duty of Care, Fiduciary Duty, Corporate Law, Delaware, Canada]

Suggested Citation:

Attaran, Bamdad, The Directors’ Duty of Care – Not a Fiduciary Duty of Care (December 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4026618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
271,899
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies