Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment and Contagion Tradeoffs between Fair Value and Historical Cost Accounting

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16835

58 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2022

Viral V. Acharya

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Saptarshi Mukherjee

Northeastern University (USA)

Rangarajan K. Sundaram

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the effects of fair-value accounting (FVA) and historical-cost accounting (HCA) regimes on the ex-ante financing of projects by external investors. We formulate a model highlighting the relative merits and demerits of each accounting regime, in particular the suboptimal continuations under the HCA regime and contagion-induced sub-optimal liquidations under the FVA regime. We show that under homogeneous beliefs about future cash-flows, FVA regime is superior with greater ex-ante financing, even during periods of high market illiquidity, when the failure of some banks leads to adverse spillovers on surviving financial institutions. However, if disclosures under the FVA regime leads to distorted beliefs about future success probabilities, ex-ante financing may suffer under the FVA regime, and it may no longer be superior relative to the HCA regime. In this setting we also analyze the impact on ex-ante financing of (i) expost redemption gates, which restrict the extent of investor liquidation under stress, and (ii) government guarantees, which limit the spillovers ex post but may incentivize excessive risk-taking ex ante.

Keywords: financial crises, Government Guarantees, Mark to market, redemption gates

JEL Classification: D21, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Acharya, Viral V. and Acharya, Viral V. and Mukherjee, Saptarshi and Sundaram, Rangarajan K., Investment and Contagion Tradeoffs between Fair Value and Historical Cost Accounting (December 1, 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16835, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026703
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies