Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wahoo Fitness: Segmentation and Data Insights

Darden Case No. UVA-M-1025

16 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2022 Last revised: 31 Mar 2023

Rajkumar Venkatesan

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Henrique Lopes

Independent

Gerry Yemen

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

This field-based case describes Wahoo Fitness's (Wahoo's) data-collection process, focusing especially on the customer survey it used to gain insights into its current and potential customers. One month before businesses across the United States closed due to COVID-19 lockdowns, Wahoo launched the Elemnt Rival GPS smart watch, which catered specifically to triathletes. The team at Wahoo was excited about the potential of this new category. To decide on next steps, the company turned to its roots: data insights. The team started with quantitative data surveys to identify customer segments and extract insights into other market opportunities. The data uncovered potential sports activity customer segments—competitive, social, and leisure. The team wondered: Was now the time to engage with cycling hobbyists or leisure cyclists? Or did it make sense to expand on the initial success of the smart watch and offer more products in the running segment? The case includes a student spreadsheet with survey data, as well as R code scripts for analyzing customer data and noncustomer data. Students utilize Excel to perform a K-means cluster analysis on the survey data, then use the analysis to determine a product expansion strategy and present their findings as if they were on the management team of Wahoo. It is a practical application of a data-driven process for tailoring product offerings and marketing strategy.This case has been taught at Darden in the Master of Science in Business Analytics program and in second-year MBA electives. It would also be suitable in graduate-level marketing or analytics courses, in addition to Executive Education programs.

Excerpt

UVA-M-1025

Rev. Mar. 24, 2023

The COVID-19 pandemic had a major impact on the personal fitness industry throughout 2020. “Indoor training had been slowly growing, but the shift indoors due to lockdowns really tipped the scale,” said John Closs, head of business insights at Wahoo Fitness (Wahoo) in Atlanta, Georgia. “It got more people into cycling.” As a result, Wahoo's sales skyrocketed; by spring 2021, it was still catching up on the backlog.

One month before the impact of the coronavirus closed businesses in the United States, Wahoo launched its first watch—the Elemnt Rival GPS smartwatch. The watch catered to triathletes and included specific features for them. For example, it was the first smartwatch to include touchless transition for triathletes. It was able to identify shifts between swimming, cycling, and running, and to automatically switch modes. In summer 2021, the Elemnt Rival watch was featured among the best men's cycling gear of the year.

. . .

Keywords: marketing analytics, segmentation, profiling, survey, personal fitness, COVID-19, smartwatch, competition, expansion, organic growth model, look-alike model

Suggested Citation:

Venkatesan, Rajkumar and Lopes, Henrique and Yemen, Gerry, Wahoo Fitness: Segmentation and Data Insights. Darden Case No. UVA-M-1025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026897
Purchase - $6.25
12 References
Triathlon Taren , Podcast
Wahoo Fitness Founder Chip Hawkins on: Starting Businesses, the Future of Bike Tech, and Taking Risks
Taren's MōTTIV Method Podcast hosted by Taren Gesell, podcast, MP3 audio Posted: 2017-10-01
GxvbnRhcmVuLmNvbS8_cD05OTE?sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjQsdrL2t7wAhURioQIHRy0CEMQkfYCegQIARAF Posted: 2021-08-08
Ant+ was a network protocol like Bluetooth but with more flexible ways for network devices to connect to each other. See "ANT Wireless Networks: Help Posted: 2022-01-26
Gary
Zwift by Numbers: 120K Take on the 2020 Tour de Zwift
Endurance.biz Posted: 2020-02-21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies