Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Tensions in MNCs’ Accounting Quality

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

TieMei Li

University of Ottawa - School of Management

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Yaqi Shi

Western University - Ivey Business School

Date Written: January 17, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates how the institutional complexity of a multinational corporation (MNC) impacts its accounting quality. Toward that end, we employ a unique sample of MNCs registering subsidiaries in offshore financial centers (OFCs). Our focus is the tension between external governance mechanisms (i.e., U.S. cross-listing, home-country institutional context) and internal governance mechanisms (OFC subsidiaries). Consistent with the corporate governance bonding hypothesis, we show that cross-listed MNCs exhibit higher accounting quality compared to non-cross-listed MNCs. However, the positive association between cross-listing and accounting quality is negatively moderated by an MNC’s choice of OFC subsidiaries, thereby suggesting that the internal governance mechanisms of MNCs interact with external mechanisms to impact its accounting quality. Moreover, an MNC’s OFC choice negatively moderates the relation between home-country governance and accounting quality, thus lending further support to corporate governance arbitrage hypothesis. Our study underscores, to regulators and investors concerned about opportunistic earnings management, the importance of enhancing monitoring efforts for MNCs with opaque and complex governance that exhibits international mobility.

Keywords: multinational corporations (MNCs), accounting quality, offshore financial centers (OFCs), corporate governance bonding hypothesis, institutional complexity theory, corporate governance arbitrage hypothesis

JEL Classification: F30

Suggested Citation:

Li, TieMei and Magnan, Michel and Shi, Yaqi, Governance Tensions in MNCs’ Accounting Quality (January 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026241
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies