Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Target Accounting Quality and Merger Consideration Design

38 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Yuyun (Robert) Zhou

Kean University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 4, 2022

Abstract

This study examines how accounting quality of target firms relates to the design of merger consideration in acquisition agreements. The theory suggests that acquirers mitigate adverse selection problems by making the value of merger consideration sensitive to the acquirers’ merger announcement returns. Using a large sample of acquisition agreements of public merging parties between 1996 and 2017, I investigate whether high-quality accounting information of target firms helps acquirers mitigate adverse selection problems and in turn affects the sensitivity of merger consideration to the acquirers’ merger announcement returns. I hypothesize and find that accounting quality of target firms is negatively related to the sensitivity of merger consideration to the acquirers’ merger announcement returns. Additionally, this relation is more pronounced when acquirers have greater incentives to resolve adverse selection problems and less pronounced when acquirers can collect more information about targets from other sources. Collectively, my evidence suggests that high-quality accounting information of target firms helps acquirers resolve adverse selection problems and affects the design of merger consideration.

Keywords: accounting quality, acquisition agreement, adverse selection, merger consideration

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Yuyun, Target Accounting Quality and Merger Consideration Design (February 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4027055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies