Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Practices Index for Road Construction Companies – a Hierarchical Framework

21 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2022

Paulo Fernando Fuzer Grael

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In the alignment of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) growing importance for investments’ decisions this paper presents an index for evaluating sustainable practices of road construction companies.. For assessing the sustainable practices it was developed a hierarchical framework based on environmental, social, and economic dimensions. The practices themes and its respective practices where found in the literature and they are selected and validate by an expert’ panel. That resulted in 12 practices themes and the 37 most relevant practices to the road construction sector. For each practice it was established a set of indicators. For the sustainable practices index, the dimensions and practices themes weights were determined using the Simplified Process Hierarchical Analysis method, applied to a second experts’ panel.  By linking the sustainable practices to measurable indicators it was possible to attain an overall sustainable practices index for road construction companies.

Keywords: Sustainability, Road Construction, Sustainable Practices, indicators, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Grael, Paulo Fernando Fuzer, Sustainable Practices Index for Road Construction Companies – a Hierarchical Framework. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4027931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies