Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Favoritism and Audit Fees: The Effect of Stock Ownership by Members of the US Congress

64 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 22 Feb 2022

Humnath Panta

CalPoly Humboldt

Arun Narayanasamy

Sam Houston State University

Dhruba Banjade

University of Texas at Arlington

Jamshed Iqbal

University of Jyväskylä; University of Vaasa, School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 7, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of political favoritism on audit fees using a large sample of publicly traded US firms. We hypothesize that political favoritism, measured as stock ownership by the members of US Congress, influences auditor’s perception of inherent risk, litigation risk, and agency costs, thereby leading to higher audit fees. Consistent with our hypothesis, we find a positive and statistically significant relationship between political favoritism and audit fees. The results are robust to controlling many firm-level and audit-related characteristics, addressing endogeneity, and omitted variable bias concerns using the Oster test, propensity score matching, and entropy balancing techniques. The empirical results show that politically favored firms pay approximately 13.66 percent higher audit fees than non-favored firms. This paper extends the literature on the role of political economy in financial reporting and auditing by documenting political favoritism as the stock ownership of US Congress members and evaluating its effect on audit fees.

Keywords: audit fees; political favoritism; political connection; investment by a politician; stock ownership

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M42, and P1

Suggested Citation:

Panta, Humnath and Narayanasamy, Arun and Banjade, Dhruba and Iqbal, Jamshed, Political Favoritism and Audit Fees: The Effect of Stock Ownership by Members of the US Congress (January 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4027570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,286
RANK
249,893
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies