Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 as a Triggering Event in the Goodwill Impairment Testing

Izvestia Journal of the Union of Scientists - Varna. Economic Sciences Series, 2021,10(3), pp.177-184.

9 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Atanas Atanasov

University of Economics - Varna

Date Written: December 23, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to review and analyze the existing regulation of the accounting impairment of goodwill in the financial statements of enterprises in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, answering the question of whether COVID-19 can be considered as a “triggering event” in the performance of the impairment test. As a result of the study it was concluded that the assessment of whether COVID-19 is a "triggering event” with material impact on goodwill impairment should be made on the basis of enterprise-specific indicators and should be performed holistically.


Keywords: goodwill impairment, indicators, COVID-19, triggering event, IAS 36

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Atanasov, Atanas, COVID-19 as a Triggering Event in the Goodwill Impairment Testing (December 23, 2021). Izvestia Journal of the Union of Scientists - Varna. Economic Sciences Series, 2021,10(3), pp.177-184., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4028873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
381,025
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies