Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Expertise in Mergers and Acquisitions

Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Forthcoming

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4028931

54 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 1 Mar 2022

Ronen Gal-Or

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: February 7, 2022

Abstract

We contribute to the literature on auditor’s task-specific expertise by examining the role of auditor experience in mergers and acquisitions (M&A), a complicated and increasingly prevalent corporate event that can give rise to misreporting. We find that in industries with more complex accounting, clients of M&A expert auditors are less likely to experience M&A-related misstatements. In industries with less complex accounting, M&A experts pass audit fee savings to their clients during acquisition years. Additional analyses suggest that firms are more likely to switch to an M&A expert auditor during an acquisition year, but only in industries with complex accounting. Overall, our results suggest that firms with an acquisitive strategy that engage with M&A expert auditors experience improved M&A-related audit outcomes.

Keywords: Auditor expertise, mergers, acquisitions, auditor changes, audit quality, audit fees, industry complexity

JEL Classification: G34, M4, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gal-Or, Ronen and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Auditor Expertise in Mergers and Acquisitions (February 7, 2022). Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Forthcoming, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4028931, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4028931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
RANK
125,978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies