Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do IPOs Bear More Severe Legal Consequences of Accounting Misstatements?

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Biyu Wu

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: December 22, 2021

Abstract

I compare litigation frequency and outcomes associated with restated IPO prospectus financial statements and a matched sample of restated non-IPO financial statements. I find that investors are 8.4% more likely to sue IPO companies than non-IPO companies for misreporting and, more importantly, that the higher litigation rate in IPOs stems from companies with error-type restatements. In addition, I find that IPO suits are more likely to be settled than non-IPO suits. Overall, these results are consistent with plaintiff attorneys’ incentives driving the filing of lawsuits and provide direct evidence that IPO companies face more severe litigation consequences of accounting misstatements than non-IPO companies.

Keywords: initial public offerings, restatements, securities litigation

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Biyu, Do IPOs Bear More Severe Legal Consequences of Accounting Misstatements? (December 22, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies