Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firstborn CEOs and Credit Ratings

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 18 Feb 2022

June Woo Park

Saint Mary’s College of California

Giseok Nam

Hankuk University of Foreign Studies

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Yung-Jae Lee

Dominican University of California

Date Written: February 8, 2022

Abstract

Our study examines whether CEOs’ birth order can predict ﬁrms’ credit ratings. Consistent with studies that document a positive relationship in the general population between being firstborn and being conservative, our study finds that firms managed by firstborn CEOs tend to have higher credit ratings than those managed by later-born CEOs. Our results are robust to controlling for additional personal CEO traits, such as political identity, and to using a propensity score matching sample. A change analysis supports the causality of the firstborn effect. We suggest that return on assets and free cash flow are possible channels through which firstborn status affects credit ratings. Cross-sectional analyses show that the positive association is less (more) pronounced for firstborn CEOs who have a pilot license (run firms in less competitive industries). These results suggest that managerial conservatism may be an important factor in credit rating agencies’ credit risk assessments.

Keywords: Firstborn; Conservatism; Risk; Credit Rating

JEL Classification: G32; J12; M41

Suggested Citation:

Park, June Woo and Nam, Giseok and Tsang, Albert and Lee, Yung-Jae, Firstborn CEOs and Credit Ratings (February 8, 2022). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
860
RANK
377,290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies