Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind closed doors: Exploring the conduct of private meetings between investor and company representatives

49 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Per Ahblom

NTNU Business School, The Norwegian University of Science and Technology; London School of Economics and Political Science

Carl Henning Christner

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

This paper explores the role of face-to-face meetings between corporate executives with fund managers and analysts from their major investors in financial market reporting. Prior literature has shown that these meetings are highly valued by investors, yet has proposed contradicting theories as to the role these meetings play in financial markets. In contrast to prior work’s indirect accounts of these meetings as retold by interviewees, our study is based on a unique empirical access to directly observe 39 private meetings hosted by four large listed companies, as well as a range of documentation and preparatory work in connection with them. We draw on a social interactional approach to theorize that these meetings play a distinct role in the financial reporting environment of capital markets as a practice ground for fund managers and analysts to learn to discuss financial reporting numbers of their investee companies in a credible manner. The paper details how the ordering of interactions in these meetings conditions the possibility for certain processes of practicing and learning to unfold in the ongoing flow of investor questions and corporate answers. We suggest that the attainment of simplified narrative scripts during the meetings affirms fund managers and analysts in their role as investment professionals and endows them with an interactional resource to be used in subsequent interactive settings with their clients and other investment professionals.

Keywords: Financial reporting, investor meetings, capital market interaction, qualitative research method, interaction order, narrative scripts

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Ahblom, Per and Christner, Carl Henning, Behind closed doors: Exploring the conduct of private meetings between investor and company representatives (December 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4029998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
898
RANK
424,948
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies