Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Private Equity Funds: A Guide to Private Equity Research in Accounting

Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 9, No. 1, Spring 2024. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JFR-2022-012

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper

Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 29 Apr 2024

Maria Borysoff (Nykyforovych)

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 11, 2023

Abstract

Private equity (PE) funds are increasingly important to the economy and now serve as the primary vehicle for raising new capital. However, a limited understanding of the unique PE fund setting among accounting academics inhibits accounting research in this area. In this paper, we first describe the PE fund setting and explain how fundamental differences between PE and previously studied settings make it difficult to infer PE fund behavior from research performed using other settings. We then discuss how PE funds provide researchers with the ability to explore fundamental questions related to agency costs, governance, compensation, disclosure, and fair value accounting. Finally, we provide guidance on PE data sources available for use in future research. Because of the volume of economic activity currently funneled through PE and the unique aspects of the PE setting, it is important for researchers to explore when, why, and how accounting matters for PE funds.

Keywords: Private Equity, Financial Reporting, Disclosure, Governance, Fair Value, Organizational Structure

JEL Classification: G1, G14, G30, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Borysoff (Nykyforovych), Maria and Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Understanding Private Equity Funds: A Guide to Private Equity Research in Accounting (February 11, 2023). Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 9, No. 1, Spring 2024. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JFR-2022-012, George Mason University School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4029787
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,648
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies