Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and its Impact on Organisational Performance in the Fourth Industrial Revolution: A Systematic Literature Review

Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 6(1), 98–114, 2022, https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv6i1p7

17 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2022

Ranson Sifiso Gwala

University of Kwazulu-Natal

Pfano Mashau

University of Kwazulu-Natal

Date Written: February 8, 2022

Abstract

This paper aims to systematically review the existing studies of corporate governance with organisational performance in the Fourth Industrial Revolution and put forward theories, research methods, topics, and variables that emerge from the review. The systematic literature review is based on 42 peer-reviewed journal articles on the topic written by reputable academics on the Science Direct Database focused on corporate governance, board characteristics, and ownership structure. This study’s conceptual framework is based on agency theory, which is the most widely used to analyse corporate governance (Fama & Jensen, 1983; Jensen & Meckling, 1976). The majority of results show a positive correlation between corporate governance and organisational performance (Pucheta-Martínez & Gallego-Álvarez, 2020) with agency theory being the most utilised theory of choice (Bergh, Ketchen, Orlandi, Heugens, & Boyd, 2019; Panda & Leepsa, 2017). This paper undertakes a significant thorough systematic review of corporate governance with firm performance and the Fourth Industrial Revolution literature. It gives an 11-year review with a reference index from 2011 to 2021, useful for both academics and professionals. This study recommends more evidence-based systematic reviews for different aspects and within different regions. It is further recommended to expand geographical spread across all continents to cover corporate governance area and to improve studies related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and its impact on corporate governance. Lastly, it is recommended that more studies that look at the impact of the Fourth Industrial Revolution on corporate governance and firm performance should be performed.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, business administration, management and accounting, firm performance, company performance, fourth industrial revolution, ownership structure

JEL Classification: G34, M1, L25

Suggested Citation:

Gwala, Ranson Sifiso and Mashau, Pfano, Corporate Governance and its Impact on Organisational Performance in the Fourth Industrial Revolution: A Systematic Literature Review (February 8, 2022). Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 6(1), 98–114, 2022, https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv6i1p7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4030586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,805
RANK
65,985
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies