Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure, Board Diversity and Ownership: Did the Revolution Make a Difference in Egypt?

Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(2), 67–80 (2022)

14 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022

Omar Al Farooque

University of New England (Australia)

Khaled M. Dahawy

The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

Egypt witnessed radical and unexpected changes in political, social and cultural environment that came as a result of the Arab Spring. Since the revolution caused a paradigm shift in so many socio-economic aspects; it is plausible that it also caused dramatic changes in different ways in the relationships of board, ownership and ESG practices. Accordingly, understanding the corporate governance of the largest Arab state in the MENA region following the Arab Spring is a huge benefit. Using the 2011 Egyptian revolution as the exogenous shock, this study empirically examines the effects of board diversity and ownership structure on the ESG disclosure index in the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) listed firms for the pre-revolution (2007-2011) and post-revolution (2012-2014) periods. Using 160 observations for the pre-revolution and 99 observations for the post-revolution periods, we document a significant positive effect of board national diversity on the ESG index in the pre-revolution period. This effect disappears in the post-revolution period. In contrast, we find that board gender diversity shows no significant effect in determining ESG index in both pre- and post-revolution periods. We additionally find that ownership variables appear to have a significant positive impact on ESG disclosure in the pre-revolution period; however, this impact is not carried forward to the post-revolution period. Further analysis on moderating effects suggests that the presence of a female board members and state ownership can diminish the effective role of foreign board members towards ESG disclosure. These findings can provide policymakers, regulators, investors and other stakeholders with a broader perspective of corporate board diversity and ownership when aiming to ensure an optimal level of ESG disclosure from listed companies in Egypt or in other emerging markets.

Keywords: ESG Disclosure, Board Diversity, Ownership, Revolution, Egypt

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M14, M49

Suggested Citation:

Farooque, Omar Al and Dahawy, Khaled M. and Shehata, Nermeen F. and Soliman, Mark T., ESG Disclosure, Board Diversity and Ownership: Did the Revolution Make a Difference in Egypt? (February 11, 2022). Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(2), 67–80 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
987
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,366
RANK
53,324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies