Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Current Status of Auditors’ and Investors’ Perceptions of the Audit Expectation Gap

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 13-63 (2022)

51 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Wendy Heltzer

DePaul University - College of Commerce

John E. McEnroe

DePaul University

Mary Mindak

DePaul University

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

Throughout this study the term “expectation gap” refers to the difference between (1) what the public and financial statement users believe the responsibilities of auditors to be, and (2) what auditors believe their responsibilities are, as in McEnroe and Martens, 2001 (hereafter MM 2001). Approximately 20 years have elapsed since MM 2001 and much has happened in the area of audit failures (i.e. Enron, WorldCom) as well as perceived enhancements (i.e. Sarbanes-Oxley Act). We replicate MM 2001 in order to measure the impact of such events on the expectation gap through analyzing survey responses from auditors, investors, and CFOs. Our findings indicate that two expectation gaps identified by MM 2001 still exist; we believe they can be addressed and perhaps eradicated with educational measures. Our findings additionally indicate that four expectation gaps documented in MM 2001 have been eliminated over time, suggesting that auditors’ perceptions of their role, especially in the area of detecting fraud, has been enhanced.

Keywords: expectation gap, attest function, auditor opinion

JEL Classification: H83, M41, M42, M48, K22

Suggested Citation:

Heltzer, Wendy and McEnroe, John E. and Mindak, Mary, The Current Status of Auditors’ and Investors’ Perceptions of the Audit Expectation Gap (February 11, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 13-63 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
240,980
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies