Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-conforming Tax Aggressiveness and Earnings Management: Evidence from Greek Public Companies

Kourdoumpalou, S., & Drogalas, G. (2022). Non-conforming tax aggressiveness and earnings management: Evidence from Greek public companies. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 14(1), 64-75.

12 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022

Stavroula Kourdoumpalou

University of Macedonia - Department of Business Administration

George Drogalas

University of Macedonia - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

The present paper examines the tax and financial reporting behaviour of Greek public companies after the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. Corporate tax aggressiveness is measured on the basis of tax audit data whereas the extent of financial earnings manipulation is captured by total and discretionary accruals. The findings suggest that earnings quality has deteriorated as firms engage in non-conforming earnings management by concurrently manipulating both their tax and accounting earnings. The results are robust for the alternative specifications of earnings management. These non-conforming reporting strategies are depicted in a high level of book-tax differences that has been considered a red flag for corporate misreporting. The research focuses on public firms in an emerging market and a code law country. The findings contradict previous studies in code law countries and highlight the need to analyse the different institutional characteristics among jurisdictions when investigating corporate reporting behaviour. Furthermore, the research reveals extensive earnings manipulation in an accounting environment with strict tax and accounting audit enforcement. The constraints imposed by the clientelistic political system in Greece and the lack of a strong accounting and auditing oversight board are considered to limit the enforceability of tax and accounting regulations.

Keywords: Earnings management, Tax evasion, Book-tax conformity, Accrual models, IFRS

JEL Classification: H26, M10, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kourdoumpalou, Stavroula and Drogalas, George, Non-conforming Tax Aggressiveness and Earnings Management: Evidence from Greek Public Companies (February 11, 2022). Kourdoumpalou, S., & Drogalas, G. (2022). Non-conforming tax aggressiveness and earnings management: Evidence from Greek public companies. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 14(1), 64-75., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
RANK
521,283
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies