Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Personal Political Contributions and Regulatory Enforcement against the CEO

Darden Business School Working Paper No. 4032019

57 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2022 Last revised: 28 Mar 2022

Wenjiao Cao

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

James P. Naughton

University of Virginia, Darden School of Business

Rafael Rogo

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Ray Zhang

Simon Fraser University - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: December 10, 2021

Abstract

We propose that CEOs make political contributions with their own money to reduce the likelihood that they are personally subject to SEC enforcement. Unlike firm contributions, which are constant over time, CEO contributions spike during misconduct periods. Moreover, the increased contributions are directed toward individual candidates, especially those who have SEC oversight through committee assignments. We find that CEO contributions are uniquely associated with differential enforcement against the CEO, while firm contributions are uniquely associated with differential enforcement against the firm. Collectively, our analyses show that CEO contributions are economically important and have several properties that distinguish them from firm contributions. In addition, our results suggest that CEO contributions may be indicative of personal regulatory capture, a possibility not considered in the literature. Our results have considerable regulatory implications for the monitoring and disclosure of executive engagement in the U.S. political system.

Keywords: political contributions, campaign finance, SEC enforcement, financial misconduct, chief executive officer, political action committee G380, K220, M48

JEL Classification: G380, K220, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Wenjiao and Naughton, James P. and Rogo, Rafael and Zhang, Ray, CEO Personal Political Contributions and Regulatory Enforcement against the CEO (December 10, 2021). Darden Business School Working Paper No. 4032019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
436
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,070
RANK
152,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden School of Business Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies