Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reshoring and Plant Closures in Covid-19 times: Evidence from Italian MNEs

Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies Research Paper No. 2021/94

40 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022

Giorgia Giovannetti

Università di Firenze

Enrica Di Stefano

Bank of Italy

Michele Mancini

Bank of Italy

Enrico Marvasi

University of Florence

Giulio Vannelli

Université Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

This paper provides new evidence on reshoring and plant closures exploiting a novel dataset of Italian multinational ﬁrms surveyed throughout 2020 and 2021, the years of the Covid-19 pandemic. We ﬁnd that Covid-19 did not spur large waves of reshoring nor plant closures. Even though the pandemic has caused severe losses to ﬁrms, including multinationals, most did not stop foreign production nor are willing to do so in the near future. Furthermore, they maintained existing suppliers. Tariﬀs and trade policy uncertainty, on the other hand, are more likely to induce reshoring and plant closures. This evidence is consistent with a simple multi-period model, illustrating how oﬀshoring, on the one side, and reshoring or plant closures, on the other side, are asymmetric in important ways. In the presence of sunk costs, reshoring and plant closures require suﬃciently large and permanent shocks to demand, trade and foreign production costs to induce behavioural changes. Covid-19 was a major shock, but it was mostly perceived as temporary, while persistent trade policy un-certainty, especially if combined with other shocks, might induce ﬁrms to revise their internationalization strategies.

Keywords: Reshoring, MNEs, Global Value Chains, Covid-19, Hetero-geneous ﬁrms.

JEL Classification: F14, F23, F60

Suggested Citation:

Giovannetti, Giorgia and Di Stefano, Enrica and Mancini, Michele and Marvasi, Enrico and Vannelli, Giulio, Reshoring and Plant Closures in Covid-19 times: Evidence from Italian MNEs (February 11, 2022). Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies Research Paper No. 2021/94, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
366,257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies