Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Capital Market Consequences Associated With Classifying Unrealized Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale (AFS) Equity Securities in GAAP Net Income

56 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022 Last revised: 24 Jan 2023

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

James M. Carson

University of Georgia

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

Dan Yang

Troy University

Date Written: January 24, 2023

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) recently issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, which requires firms to report unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) equity securities in net income. This paper uses a difference-in-differences design and a sample of public insurers to examine the capital market consequences associated with this reporting change. We find a significant decrease in firms’ earnings response coefficient (ERC) after the application of this new standard, and this is driven by a decrease in earnings persistence. These results suggests that, after the reporting change, earnings less fully reflect the information investors use when revising their beliefs about firm value. However, our evidence indicates no significant changes in investor assessment of overall firm risk following the reporting change, suggesting that investors appear to understand that the reduction in earnings persistence is not reflective of a change in firm risk.

Keywords: Regulation; Other Comprehensive Income; Information Content; Market-based perceptions of firm risk

JEL Classification: G11, G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Carson, James M. and Eastman, Evan and Yang, Dan, The Capital Market Consequences Associated With Classifying Unrealized Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale (AFS) Equity Securities in GAAP Net Income (January 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
125,978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies