Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Would Directors Make Business Decisions Under a Stakeholder Model?

77 Business Lawyer, 773, Summer 2002

U Iowa Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2022-06

29 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2022 Last revised: 29 Jul 2022

Robert T. Miller

George Mason University - Antonin Scalia Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Classical Liberal Institute, New York University Law School; Manhattan Institute

Date Written: February 6, 2022

Abstract

Strong forms of the stakeholder model of corporate governance hold that, in making business decisions, directors should consider the interests of all corporate constituencies (employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, etc.) in such a way that directors may sometimes decide to transfer value to a non-shareholder constituency even though doing so produces no net benefit for shareholders even in the long-term. This article makes four main points about the stakeholder model. First, although its advocates often speak as if the model placed all corporate constituencies on a par, in fact the model uniquely disadvantages shareholders: since the claims of other constituencies arise in contract or by law, directors have no power to invade these claims for the benefit of shareholders; hence, business decisions made under a stakeholder model will often transfer value from shareholders to other constituencies but never from other constituencies to shareholders. Second, although critics of the stakeholder model have long argued that the model provides no definite standard by which directors may decide what to do in particular cases, this greatly understates the point. In fact, the stakeholder model leaves business decisions radically indeterminate, for it includes no normative criteria by which any business decision could be judged to be any better or any worse than any other. Third, some normative criteria that can be added to the stakeholder model and might seem to solve this problem in fact fail to do so; this includes criteria based on Kaldor-Hicks efficiency, on hypothetical bargains among the corporate constituencies, or even on Delaware doctrines about allocating merger consideration among classes of shareholders. Finally, the article notes a surprising point of agreement between advocates of stakeholderism and its critics, viz., that decisions made under a stakeholder model would be essentially political in nature. That is, they will be based not on rational, normative considerations but on the varying abilities of different constituencies to pressure or lobby the directors—i.e., business decisions become essentially rent-seeking contests.

Keywords: stakeholders, stakeholder governance, esg, shareholder wealth, shareholder value, Berle-Dodd, stakeholderism

JEL Classification: K20, K22, M10, M14, M20, A13

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Robert T., How Would Directors Make Business Decisions Under a Stakeholder Model? (February 6, 2022). 77 Business Lawyer, 773, Summer 2002, U Iowa Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2022-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032539 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,039
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,374
RANK
49,643
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Iowa College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies