Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Transparency Regulation: Evidence from Bank Mortgage Lending

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

52 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2022 Last revised: 21 Jun 2023

Allison Nicoletti

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Christina Zhu

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: June 20, 2023

Abstract

We examine the economic consequences of a rule designed to improve consumers' understanding of mortgage information. The 2015 TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosures (TRID) rule simplifies the mortgage disclosures provided to consumers. As a consequence, TRID-affected mortgages become a less attractive investment opportunity to banks. Our main results document that mortgage applications affected by TRID are less likely to be approved following the rule's effective date. We find evidence consistent with both a decrease in consumers' information processing costs and an increase in banks' secondary market frictions, providing insight into the potential channels through which this reduction in mortgage credit operates. We also find that banks partially compensate for reduced mortgage lending by increasing small business lending, and that fintechs absorb mortgage demand in areas with reduced mortgage lending by banks. Our study documents real actions that firms take in response to disclosure transparency regulation and contributes to the literature on the economic consequences of such regulation.

Online appendix available at https://ssrn.com/abstract=4486367

Keywords: information processing costs, consumer disclosures, real effects, mortgage lending, banks, fintechs, transparency regulation

JEL Classification: D18, D83, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Nicoletti, Allison and Zhu, Christina, Economic Consequences of Transparency Regulation: Evidence from Bank Mortgage Lending (June 20, 2023). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
S Agarwal , I Ben-David , V Yao
Systematic mistakes in the mortgage market and lack of financial sophistication
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 58 Posted: 2017
S Agarwal , E Benmelech , N Bergman , A Seru
Did the community reinvestment act (cra) lead to risky lending? Posted: 2012
Re: Docket No. CFPB-2019-0055. Request for Information Regarding the Integrated Mortgage Disclosures Under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X) and the
Truth In Lending Act (Regulation Z) Rule Assessment Posted: 2020
S Anagol , H H Kim
The impact of shrouded fees: Evidence from a natural experiment in the indian mutual funds market
American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 576 - 593 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,375
RANK
119,160
10 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies