Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing Brand Purpose As Shared Stakeholder and Shareholder Value

Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Bobby Calder

Independent

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

Firms face increasing pressure both to do good for noncustomer external stakeholders and to maximize returns to shareholders from revenue producing customers. Adding a societal purpose to a brand offers the possibility of such "shared value"—creating stakeholder good and shareholder value at the same time. Realizing this promise, however, requires an intrinsic as opposed to an extrinsic implementation of brand purpose. An extrinsic implementation of brand purpose can serve as a short-term inducement to customers, as with any sales promotion, but whether this increases the strength of a brand sufficiently to create financial value for shareholders is questionable. In contrast, with an intrinsic implementation, brand purpose becomes part of the meaning of a brand, making the brand stronger and thus more financially valuable. An intrinsic implementation requires integrating brand purpose into the core positioning concept of the brand. Key elements of the purpose must fit with the three critical components of any brand positioning.

Keywords: Branding; Brand positioning; Purpose; Stakeholder capitalism; Shareholder value

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Calder, Bobby, Implementing Brand Purpose As Shared Stakeholder and Shareholder Value (February 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032819
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Managerial Marketing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies