Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Based Risk Measurement - Evidence for the German Market

46 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Oliver Mehring

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 19, 2022

Abstract

I implement the accounting-based risk measurement approach in equity valuation proposed by Nekrasov and Shroff (2009) for the German market using monthly data from 2002 to 2019. The empirical analysis shows that value estimates based on this risk measurement approach produce a signiﬁcantly smaller valuation inaccuracy relative to the market-based approach for the CDAX constituents. In addition, the explanatory power of the variation in securities prices is larger for the intrinsic value estimate based on the accounting approach. Additionally, the estimated risk can be transformed to obtain accounting-based cost of equity. In contrast to the cost of equity produced by the CAPM, a significant positive correlation with the implied cost of capital can be observed. I conclude and highlight that accounting information is useful for equity investors.

Keywords: fundamental analysis, risk measurement, accounting beta, German stock market

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mehring, Oliver, Accounting-Based Risk Measurement - Evidence for the German Market (August 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4034822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4034822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies