Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Next for the Horizontal Merger Guidelines?

Antitrust Magazine, Spring 2022 (Forthcoming)

17 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022

Nancy L. Rose

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Carl Shapiro

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: February 14, 2022

Abstract

We offer recommendations for how the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission can update the Horizontal Merger Guidelines ("HMGs") to strengthen merger enforcement. We focus our recommendations on three main areas. First, we suggest several ways that the HMGs can strengthen the structural presumption in a manner consistent with sound economics and with how the courts have been analyzing mergers in recent decades. Most important, the HMGs can do more to explain how and why the Hypothetical Monopolist Test (“HMT”), embraced by the courts for decades as a method to define relevant markets, often leads to narrow markets. They also can add presumptions based solely on increase in concentration caused by the merger, to address unilateral harms that currently may escape redress. Second, we recommend that the HMGs elaborate on how the Agencies determine whether a merger may substantially lessen dynamic competition, which includes potential competition and innovation. The historical emphasis of merger law on static market structure has made it unduly difficult for the government to challenge mergers that may lessen dynamic competition. Updated HMGs can help fix this historical oversight. Third, merger enforcement has not paid enough attention to how mergers may lessen competition among employers to hire workers. We suggest that the updated HMGs include a new section, Mergers of Competing Employers, to explain how the Agencies assess such harms to workers.

Keywords: antitrust, mergers, unilateral effects, innovation, monopsony power

JEL Classification: L41, L44

Suggested Citation:

Rose, Nancy L. and Shapiro, Carl, What Next for the Horizontal Merger Guidelines? (February 14, 2022). Antitrust Magazine, Spring 2022 (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4034923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4034923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,660
RANK
130,913
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies