Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Net Income Measurement, Investor Inattention, and Firm Decisions

FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 22-5

59 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2022 Last revised: 18 Feb 2022

Natee Amornsiripanitch

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

Zeqiong Huang

Yale School of Management

David Kwon

Yale School of Management

Jinjie Lin

Yale School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February, 2022

Abstract

When investors have limited attention, does the way in which net income is measured matter for firm value and firms’ resource allocation decisions? This paper uses the Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-01, which requires public firms to incorporate changes in unrealized gains and losses (UGL) on equity securities into net income, to answer this question. We build a model with risk-averse investors who can be attentive or inattentive and managers who choose how much to invest in financial assets to maximize firms’ stock prices. The model predicts that, with inattentive investors, stock prices react more to changes in UGL from equity securities under the new regime and, under certain conditions, investors assign larger price discounts. Managers respond to such discounts by cutting financial asset holdings. We use insurance company data to test these predictions. Prices of stocks with low analyst coverage react more to changes in UGL from equity securities, highlighting the role of investor inattention. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we find that by 2020, publicly traded insurance companies cut investments in public stocks by $23 billion.

Keywords: Net income components, investor inattention, ASU 2016-01, capital allocation decisions

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G22, G30, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amornsiripanitch, Natee and Huang, Zeqiong and Kwon, David and Lin, Jinjie, Net Income Measurement, Investor Inattention, and Firm Decisions (February, 2022). FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 22-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.21799/frbp.wp.2022.05
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
106,095
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies