Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Measurement of Tax Residence: Implications for Research on Corporate Taxation

71 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2022 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Jean-Marie Meier

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management; University of Pennsylvania - Finance Department

Jake Smith

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

We propose an improved measurement of a key data item in corporate tax research, a firm’s tax residence. Prior research uses one of three proxies, which are in conflict with tax laws around the world. We use a novel algorithm that embeds the residency laws of 150 countries over 20 years to accurately assign tax residence and reassign a considerable fraction of firms relative to standard proxies. We provide evidence from two applications that reassignment significantly affects inferences. For instance, 20.7% of cross-border mergers and acquisitions involve an acquiror or target that is reassigned. Reassigned firms are systematically different from other firms along several dimensions, including effective tax rates.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, tax residence, tax law, mergers and acquisitions, tax havens

JEL Classification: H25, C81, H73, G34, K34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Meier, Jean-Marie and Smith, Jake, Improving the Measurement of Tax Residence: Implications for Research on Corporate Taxation (February 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4035673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Alstadsaeter , B Planterose , G Zucman , A Økland
Who Owns Offshore Real Estate? Evidence from Dubai Posted: 2022
A Babkin , B Glover , O Levine
Are Corporate Inversions Good for Shareholders
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 251 Posted: 2017
H Bollaert , M Delanghe
Securities Data Company and Zephyr, Data Sources for M&A Research
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 33 , p. 85 - 100 Posted: 2015
S Bradley , L Robinson , M Ruf
The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,953
RANK
234,143
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies