Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funding Innovation with Earlier stage IPOs or Venture Capital: Australia compared with the U.S.

43 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2022

Terry Marsh

Quantal International Inc.

Kylie Gilbey

University of Western Australia

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

We compare earlier exchange public listing with venture capital (VC) financing as a source for startup funding. We describe how early-stage ASX IPOs have increasingly substituted for the longer private financing and correspondingly later IPOs that have increasingly become the U.S. norm in the last five to ten years. We attribute the ASX’s growth success in part to the financial ecosystem that supports the launch of still-early-stage companies into the standardized ASX marketplace. We show that small/microcap ASX listings that are “easier to value” with a lower level of potential information asymmetry – primarily mining & metals --- tend to list earlier. We confirm that the early Australian listings are not driven by regulatory discontinuities over time, and also discuss how SPACs contain some of the features of early-stage ASX IPOs that in earlier Australian renditions were known as Cashboxes.

Suggested Citation:

Marsh, Terry and Gilbey, Kylie, Funding Innovation with Earlier stage IPOs or Venture Capital: Australia compared with the U.S. (February 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4035834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
232,476
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies