Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance of Central Counterparties and Shareholder Primacy: a Re-evaluation in the Presence of Systemic Risk

International and Comparative Corporate Law Journal, Volume 15, 2022, Issue 2, p. 35-55

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-40

16 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2022 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Katrien Morbee

University of Oxford; Queen Mary University of London

Date Written: February 17, 2022

Abstract

Amidst the catastrophic collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, central counterparties (‘CCPs’) worldwide kept the global securities and derivatives exchanges afloat by rescuing trillions of dollars of trades affected by the bankruptcy. The successful performance of CCPs during the crisis has put them on the regulatory agenda as new financial bulwark against systemic contagion in the over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivatives market. By guaranteeing the OTC derivatives of a failing institution, the CCP can supposedly prevent the failure of one institution from spreading to its counterparties. In the EU, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (‘EMIR’) introduced mandatory clearing via CCPs for certain standardised OTC derivatives.

However, the centralisation of risks also makes CCPs central nodes in the financial market, whose failure could have devastating consequences for systemic stability. It is therefore essential from a systemic risk perspective that CCPs correctly manage their risk exposure. This lays bare the weakness of the new system: CCPs are in essence private institutions established for furthering the interests of private parties, not the interests of the prudential regulator. The governance challenge in CCPs therefore lies in ensuring that managers take decisions that safeguard their long-term financial stability.

This paper contributes to the debate regarding the governance of CCPs by re-evaluating the appropriateness of the predominant view in Anglo-American corporate governance scholarship that a firm should be run in the interests of its shareholders. In particular, the paper argues that CCPs focused on generating revenue for their shareholders do not have the best incentives to prevent systemic risk generated by their activities. This observation has important implications for the design of the governance of CCPs and in particular requires a re-evaluation of the focus on shareholder value maximisation. The paper shows that the current EU regulatory framework fails to deliver in this respect.


Keywords: Corporate Governance, Central Counterparties, Shareholder Primacy, Systemic Risk, Ownership Structure, European Market Infrastructure Regulation (‘EMIR’), Shareholder Value, Systemically Important Financial Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Morbee, Katrien, The Corporate Governance of Central Counterparties and Shareholder Primacy: a Re-evaluation in the Presence of Systemic Risk (February 17, 2022). International and Comparative Corporate Law Journal, Volume 15, 2022, Issue 2, p. 35-55, University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4037111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
490,025
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies