Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and Investment Efficiency: The Role of Strategic Alliances

48 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2022 Last revised: 8 Nov 2022

Huichi Huang

Oregon State University - College of Business

Nir Yehuda

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

David Weinbaum

Syracuse University

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

We study firms that engage in strategic alliances and investigate the link between a firm’s investment and the accounting quality of its partners. Given the view of the firm as a nexus of contractual relationships, we expect that alliance partner information will help investors monitor the firm. In line with this expectation, we show that partner firms’ accounting quality reduces both over- and underinvestment in the focal firm. We also test the role of partner firms’ accounting quality in multisegment firms, in which agency conflicts are more acute. We find that the accounting quality of partner firms reduces the diversification discount in these firms.

Keywords: Accounting Quality; Alliances; Investment

JEL Classification: M41; L14; L22; L24

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Huichi and Yehuda, Nir and Weinbaum, David, Financial Reporting Quality and Investment Efficiency: The Role of Strategic Alliances (February 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4038827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4038827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
RANK
152,310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies