Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When are expected credit losses decision-useful and new to investors? Evidence from CECL adoption

47 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2022 Last revised: 17 Mar 2025

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

Jed Neilson

Pennsylvania State University

Brent Schmidt

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Biqin Xie

Office of Financial Research, U.S. Department of the Treasury

Date Written: March 17, 2025

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standards Board replaced the “incurred loss” (IL) model with the “current expected credit loss” (CECL) model, which requires entities to recognize lifetime expected credit losses upon loan origination. We investigate four controversies surrounding CECL to provide evidence on when expected credit losses are decision-useful and new for investors. We examine whether (1) CECL allowances are only decision-useful for larger banks, (2) CECL allowances provide new credit loss information, (3) credit losses expected to emerge beyond one year are relevant for investors, and (4) separately reporting IL and CECL allowance amounts has more information content than reporting a single CECL allowance amount. Contrary to the views of community banks and evidence in prior literature, we find that CECL allowances are decision-useful for both small and large banks. However, CECL allowances are new information only for smaller banks. We also find that CECL allowances are decision-useful regardless of the loss emergence period, despite later-emerging losses being unrecognized under IFRS 9, CECL’s international counterpart. Finally, we find that reporting a single CECL allowance amount is relatively less decision-useful than an alternative accounting regime that reports incurred and expected future credit losses separately.

Keywords: CECL, expected credit losses, incurred loss, FASB, standard setting, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Gee, Kurt H. and Neilson, Jed and Schmidt, Brent and Xie, Biqin, When are expected credit losses decision-useful and new to investors? Evidence from CECL adoption (March 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4038479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4038479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 stock-based compensation expense and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms understate stock option-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
J Bable , C Wong , M Wynes
The decision usefulness of CECL: Users' views about the current expected credit losses model Posted: 2023
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale effects in capital markets-based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
Load more
2 Citations
Murad Abuaddous
The implementation of IFRS9 in Gulf banks: using the GMM and the difference-in-differences with multiple time periods approaches
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 125 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Aurelius Aaron , Xiaoli Jia , Jeffrey Ng , Janus Jian Zhang
Current expected credit loss model adoption
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
837
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,674
RANK
66,900
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies