Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Whole is More than the Sum of its Parts: An Intrapersonal Board Diversity Approach

52 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022 Last revised: 14 Oct 2022

Christina Liepold

TUM School of Management,Technical University of Munich

Martin Viehweger

LMU Munich School of Management

Date Written: October 14, 2022

Abstract

Research on board composition focuses on interpersonal diversity, e.g., by examining the diversity of individual attributes. Since directors’ decision-making depends on their respective personal backgrounds, directors sharing a large set of characteristic values are more likely to decide similarly and to form subgroups, leading to less efficient communication and decision-making in the board. Following this idea, we introduce intrapersonal board diversity to the discussion on board composition and develop an intrapersonal diversity measure. Using k-means clustering, we form groups of directors that share many characteristic values and, subsequently, calculate the variety of director groups within the board, i.e., intrapersonal board diversity. The results suggest that intrapersonal board diversity relates positively to corporate governance. When examining intrapersonal and interpersonal board diversity simultaneously, we find that intrapersonal diversity explains the benefits and interpersonal diversity the costs of diversity. Establishing a definition for board diversity based on the variety of the distribution of characteristic values among directors can be of particular interest for future research, practice, and regulators.

Keywords: Board Diversity, Group Faultlines, Corporate Governance, Board of Directors

JEL Classification: C12, C33, D22, D70, D81, D83

Suggested Citation:

Liepold, Christina and Viehweger, Martin, The Whole is More than the Sum of its Parts: An Intrapersonal Board Diversity Approach (October 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4039546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4039546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
541,838
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies