Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect on Stock Return of Inclusion in the BIST Corporate Governance Index

Journal of Research in Economics, Politics & Finance, (2021), 6(1), 181-200.

20 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Nuriye Yetgin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ersan Ersoy

Usak University

Date Written: February 21, 2022

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate whether the investors can get abnormal income using the information related to the corporations’ getting into corporate governance index. In the study, event study method is used including 59 firms which are in BIST Corporate Governance Index starting from 2007 until the end of 2018 term. -10 and +10 event study range has been used. The event window of -10 days to +10 days was used and the average abnormal return rates for each day in the event window and the cumulative average abnormal return rates for selected time intervals in the event window were analyzed using parametric and non-parametric tests. As a result of the tests, only the average abnormal return for the 7th day before the event has been found to be positive and statistically significant. The average abnormal returns for the 3rd ,4th and 10th days following the event day were found to be negative and statistically significant. In the cumulative average abnormal returns “between the event day and +3 days” and “between the event day and +4 days” were statistically significant, but the sign was negative. When a general evaluation is made, it can be said that investors do not provide a return above the market return or a cumulative abnormal return by using the information regarding the inclusion in the corporate governance index within the scope of the research period.

Özet
Bu çalışmanın amacı, firmaların kurumsal yönetim endeksine alınmasına ilişkin bilgiyi kullanarak yatırımcıların anormal getiri sağlayıp sağlayamayacaklarını araştırmaktır. 2007-2018 döneminde BIST Kurumsal Yönetim Endeksinde yer alan 59 firmayı kapsayan çalışmada olay çalışması yöntemi kullanılmıştır. -10 gün ile +10 günlük olay penceresi kullanılmış ve olay penceresinde yer alan her gün için ortalama anormal getiri oranlarının, olay penceresinde yer alan seçilmiş zaman aralıkları için de kümülatif ortalama anormal getiri oranlarının istatistiksel olarak anlamlı olup almadığı parametrik ve parametrik olmayan testlerden faydalanılarak analiz edilmiştir. Yapılan testler sonucunda, sadece olay gününden önceki 7. güne ait ortalama anormal getiri pozitif ve istatistiksel olarak anlamlı çıkmıştır. Olay gününü takip eden 3., 4. ve 10. günlere ait ortalama anormal getiriler negatif ve istatistiksel olarak anlamlı bulunmuştur. Kümülatif ortalama anormal getirilerde ise “Olay günü ile +3 gün arası”, ve “Olay günü ile +4 gün arası” kümülatif ortalama anormal getiriler istatistiksel olarak anlamlı olmakla birlikte işareti negatif çıkmıştır. Genel bir değerlendirme yapıldığında, araştırma dönemi kapsamında yatırımcıların kurumsal yönetim endeksine alınma olayına ilişkin bilgiyi kullanarak piyasa getirisinin üzerinde bir getiri veya kümülatif anormal getiri sağlamadıkları söylenebilir.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Index, Index Inclusion, Abnormal Return, Cumulative Abnormal Return, Event Study

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Yetgin, Nuriye and Ersoy, Ersan, The Effect on Stock Return of Inclusion in the BIST Corporate Governance Index (February 21, 2022). Journal of Research in Economics, Politics & Finance, (2021), 6(1), 181-200., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4039742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies