Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditor Style Influence Non-GAAP Reporting?

58 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2022

Frank Heflin

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Jacqueline Tan

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Karen Ton

Villanova University

Jasmine Wang

University of Virginia

Date Written: February 21, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether auditor style is associated with non-GAAP disclosures. Specifically, we find that clients audited by the same auditor are more likely to disclose non-GAAP earnings in a similar manner. We assess disclosure similarity using (1) the decision to disclose non-GAAP earnings, (2) the disclosure prominence of non-GAAP earnings, and (3) the discussion of non-GAAP earnings in the management discussion and analysis of the annual report. We find that the association between auditor style and non-GAAP disclosure is determined by Big 4 accounting firms and clients audited by the same audit office within an audit firm. We also find some evidence that auditor style is associated with clients’ choices to exclude recurring items and non-GAAP disclosure quality. Finally, the audit office level results are incremental to similarity that results from geographical proximity. Our results are relevant to current policy discussions regarding auditor involvement in unaudited non-GAAP earnings reporting.

Keywords: Auditor style, non-GAAP reporting, Big 4 accounting firms

Suggested Citation:

Heflin, Frank and Tan, Jacqueline and Ton, Karen and Wang, Jasmine, Does Auditor Style Influence Non-GAAP Reporting? (February 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4040180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
RANK
190,939
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies