Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Data Governance: The Datafication of Finance, the Rise of Open Banking and the End of the Data Centralization Paradigm

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022/08

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2022 - no. 117

63 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2022 Last revised: 23 Mar 2022

Douglas W. Arner

The University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Giuliano G. Castellano

The University of Hong Kong, Faculty of Law; The University of Hong Kong - Asian Institute of International Financial Law

Eriks Selga

The University of Hong Kong, Faculty of Law, Students

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Finance is one of the most digitalized, globalized, and regulated sectors of the economy. Traditionally technology-intensive, the financial industry has been at the forefront of digital transformation. Starting from the dematerialization of financial assets and culminating in the post-2008 Global Financial Crisis era of FinTech, the integration of finance and a range of new technologies triggered a process of radical digitalization. Data is no longer just the lynchpin of finance; finance is data. Financial transactions are transfers of data, financial infrastructures, such as stock exchanges and payment systems, are data networks; and financial institutions, like banks and other intermediaries, are data processors – gathering, analyzing, and trading the data generated by their customers.

Financial regulation has been forced to adapt to financial digitalization. In parallel, new sets of rules and principles have been developed to assert sovereignty over the digital world. These rules are increasingly enveloping all critical societal functions, from privacy, to national security. Though emerging regulatory regimes pertaining to financial activities and general data governance rules increasingly intersect, their relationship often remains unclear. This paper builds a framework of analysis to address the datafication of finance.

First, we define the notion of financial data governance as an heterogenous system of rules and principles concerned with financial data, digital finance, and related digital infrastructure. To explain how legal and regulatory regimes interact with the digitalization of finance, we consider emerging key financial data governance components in the European Union, People’s Republic of China, India, and the United States. In this context, the relationship between general data governance, financial regulation, and Open Banking reveals different types of linkages defining a set of archetypical financial data governance models.

Second, we examine the challenges affecting financial data governance. As financial information is digitized and financial assets are datafied, finance is inextricably linked to data governance. The coalescence of financial regulation, new regulatory frameworks for digital finance, and general data governance regimes, however, is not always harmonious. Conflicts arising from the intersection of different, and uncoordinated, regimes threaten to frustrate core policy objectives of stability, integrity, and security, as well as the functioning of the global financial system.

In order to address this requires a reconceptualization of the financial data centralization paradigm, both by regulators and by the financial industry.


Keywords: Data governance; financial data governance; Open Banking; financial regulation; Fourth Industrial Revolution; digitalization; datafication; data analytics; digital assets; digital banking; financial stability; money laundering; federated data; distributed ledger technology; blockchain

Suggested Citation:

Arner, Douglas W. and Castellano, Giuliano and Selga, Eriks, Financial Data Governance: The Datafication of Finance, the Rise of Open Banking and the End of the Data Centralization Paradigm (February 1, 2022). University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022/08, European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2022 - no. 117, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4040604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,513
RANK
14,985
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies