Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 and Stock Return: Empirical Evidence from Developing Economy

International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics 2021, 8(6), 368-400. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5108094

33 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2022

Md. Rezaul Karim

University of Dhaka

Sifat Ara Saba

Sifat Ara Saba

Date Written: June 2021

Abstract

This paper has tried to assess the impact of COVID-19 on stock return in different sectors listed under Dhaka Stock Exchange in Bangladesh during the period from 08 March 2020 to 15 September 2020. To measure the impact of COVID-19 on stock return, daily change in number of confirmed cases and deaths have been used as independent variables and DSE stock return has been taken as variable of interest. Data were collected from Bangladesh Government’s official portal, DSE archive and annual reports of listed firms. Sample is selected using two stage sampling method which is a probabilistic model. To test the validity of the used model, Pearson’s correlations analysis, Breusch and Pagan’s heteroscedasticity test, White’s homoscedasticity test and Hausman’s fixed random tests are conducted. After testing the validity, fixed effect method of panel data regression model has been used to test the two hypotheses. The result reveals that most of the sectors responded negatively to the growth in COVID-19 confirmed cases. It is also observed that selected sectors reacted more proactively to the growth in number of deaths as compared to the growth in number of confirmed cases. Where banking and textile sectors are the most sufferers to the growth of both confirmed cases and deaths, pharmaceuticals & chemicals industry proved out to be the gainers. The findings will have policy implications for the regulators as well as for the investors to design the optimum portfolio of investment. The study will add new dimensions to the existing literature.

Keywords: COVID-19, Stock Market, Stock Return, Developing Economy

Suggested Citation:

Karim, Md. Rezaul and Saba, Sifat Ara, COVID-19 and Stock Return: Empirical Evidence from Developing Economy (June 2021). International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics 2021, 8(6), 368-400. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5108094, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies