Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Pledges and Firm Value

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 55, 192-205. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2019.04.001

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 28 Feb 2022

Michelle Li

University of Auckland Business School

Chelsea Liu

University of Adelaide - Business School

Tom Scott

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Share pledging is when shareholdings are used as collateral to obtain loans. While uncommon in many developed economies, the practice is prevalent in the Chinese capital markets. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms over 2003–2015, we find a positive association between share pledges by the largest shareholder and firm value. To alleviate concerns around the robustness of our results, we examine the relationship between share pledging and firm value using the Heckman selection model, a difference-in-differences model, change models, and employ other additional tests. Further, we examine stock price crash risk for the pledged firms and find no evidence of any increase in crash risk, which may partially explain the positive association between share pledging and firm value. Our results provide insights into the controversial practice of share pledging in the developing market of China. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2019.04.001

Keywords: Share pledging, Firm value, Corporate governance, Tobin's Q

Suggested Citation:

Li, Michelle and Liu, Chelsea and Scott, Tom, Share Pledges and Firm Value (2019). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 55, 192-205. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2019.04.001, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041629
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies