Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Discontinuous and Unpredictable Environmental Change on Management Accounting during Organizational Crisis: A Field Study

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Mar 2022

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how organizations change their use of management accounting during crisis. The study is important because organizations regularly face significant challenges such as crisis during which the role of management accounting is not well understood. Based on interviews and observation in five private sector organizations and one in the public sector, I find that executives in organizations facing crisis due to a discontinuous and unpredictable environmental change leverage management accounting during the crisis. In contrast, executives in organizations facing crisis due to a continuous and predictable environmental change question the truth and value of their management accounting practices and, as a result, do not change their use of management accounting to manage the crisis. For those organizations that do leverage management accounting, I rely on conceptual and empirical insights from the literature examining the decision-facilitating role of informal management accounting to examine how they adapt or develop new management accounting tools and practices to manage crisis. I find that executives first engage in a comprehensive review of their management accounting systems and reports to convince themselves that they can be relied on. Following this process, they leverage accounting to understand the past, develop metrics intended to reach all employees, and institute various forms of accountability to support the management of crisis. The use of these informal management accounting tools and practices enables organizations to develop a new language for understanding and managing crisis. The primary contribution of my study is that it conceptualizes and theorizes informal management accounting tools and practices as a mechanism that facilitates response to crisis. These tools and practices are low-cost and easy to implement, which are favorable given the challenges associated with crisis.

Keywords: management accounting, informal accounting, organizational crisis, environmental change, discontinuous change, unpredictable change

Suggested Citation:

Hayne, Christie, The Effect of Discontinuous and Unpredictable Environmental Change on Management Accounting during Organizational Crisis: A Field Study (February 11, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041261
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies