Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Board Membership: Implications for Firm Value

Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 30 No. 3, pp. 352-370. https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-05-2017-0037

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 28 Feb 2022

Michelle Li

University of Auckland Business School

Helen Roberts

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Purpose
This paper aims to examine the relation between CEO board membership and firm performance.
Design/methodology/approach
This paper investigates the relationship between firm performance and CEO board membership, applying two-stage least squares, propensity score matching and correcting for self-selection bias across a unique sample of publicly listed New Zealand firms that demonstrate a definitive variation in CEO board membership.
Findings
This study finds that CEO board membership has a positive impact on firm performance, and these benefits are greater for more complex firms.
Research limitations/implications
Firms with CEOs independent of the board are associated with lower firm performance. The results are consistent with CEO board members providing an important information transfer mechanism to the board, resulting in an increase in average firm performance. This benefit is greater for larger firms with more business segments.
Originality/value
The paper tests for the impact of CEO board membership using a data set that demonstrates a definitive variation in CEO board membership.

Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-05-2017-0037

Keywords: Firm performance, Corporate governance, CEO board membership, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Michelle and Roberts, Helen, CEO Board Membership: Implications for Firm Value (2018). Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 30 No. 3, pp. 352-370. https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-05-2017-0037, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041628
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
312
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies