Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When is the Board’S Two Cents Worth More? Bod Pay and Firm Performance Under Contingencies
Journal of Business Research

45 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2022 Publication Status: Published

Arvin Sahaym

Washington State University - Carson College of Business

jaideep chowdhury

James Madison University

Abstract

This study examines how the board of directors’ pay structure may influence accounting- and market-based measures of firm performance, and how firm complexity in pay structure is associated with firm performance. We integrate the insights of the Board Capital View and Contingency theory to provide theoretical reasoning. A key premise is that in the presence of environmental uncertainty and competitive intensity, BOD members will be particularly motivated to leverage their resources and capabilities to the utmost to counsel the top management team for improving firm performance. We propose that BOD compensation will be associated with both accounting- and market-based measures of firm performance especially under contingencies. We test our assertions in the context of publicly traded U.S. firms listed on the NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ exchanges from 1992–2019, for a total of 20,931 firm years. We contribute to the governance literature by advancing knowledge of executive compensation and firm performance.

Keywords: board capital view, contingency theory, board of directors compensation, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Sahaym, Arvin and chowdhury, jaideep, When is the Board’S Two Cents Worth More? Bod Pay and Firm Performance Under Contingencies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4042167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4042167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies