Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Foundations of Governance: implications of Entity Theory for Directors’ Duties and Corporate Sustainability

Journal of Management and Governance, 1-25.DOI:10.1007/s10997-021-09580-y

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 1 Mar 2022

Lynn Buckley

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper examines two distinct corporate theories, shareholder primacy and entity theory, as foundations of corporate governance and their implications for corporate sustainability. Specifically, the purpose of this paper is to argue for a shift in perspective away from shareholder primacy towards an alternative approach—entity theory. It considers why shareholder primacy as a foundation for governance is problematic for facilitating sustainable business decisions and suggests that conceptualizing the company as an entity would provide a more appropriate theoretical foundation for governance which lends itself to sustainable corporate conduct. Although abstract in isolation, such corporate theories can have real world influence on governance and subsequently director behavior. This point is illustrated by contrasting the extent to which directors, as part of their duty to act in good faith in the best interests of the company, can factor sustainability interests into their business decisions across a shareholder orientated jurisdiction, the United Kingdom, and an entity orientated jurisdiction, Canada. The analysis demonstrates the implications of entity theory for sustainable director decisions when acting in the best interests of the company; namely, a reduction of the pressures associated with the shareholder primacy drive, broader notions of what constitutes corporate interest, and a recognition of the entity’s role in society to behave as a good corporate citizen. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-021-09580-y

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corporate legal theory, Directors’ duties, Sustainable business

Suggested Citation:

Buckley, Lynn, The Foundations of Governance: implications of Entity Theory for Directors’ Duties and Corporate Sustainability (2021). Journal of Management and Governance, 1-25.DOI:10.1007/s10997-021-09580-y, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4042350
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies