Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tone Management and Stock Price Crash Risk

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2022 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Doron Reichmann

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

Managers have substantial discretion over qualitative disclosures. At the same time, disclosure tone is an important source of information to investors. In this study, I examine the relation between tone management and future stock price crash risk. Consistent with the view that managers use their discretion over disclosure tone for intentional information management, I find that tone management in the Management Discussion and Analysis of 10-K files is, on average, positively associated with future stock price crash risk, even after controlling for quantitative crash determinants and financial disclosure readability. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the effect is more pronounced when managers have more incentives and are less constrained in manipulating disclosure tone. Collectively, my results suggest that tone management can have greater and broader capital market consequences than previously documented.

Keywords: Stock Price Crash Risk, Textual Disclosures, Tone Management

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Reichmann, Doron, Tone Management and Stock Price Crash Risk (October 24, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4043837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4043837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Agnes Cheng , C Li , S Zhang , E X
Operating cash flow opacity and stock price crash risk
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh , A Scherf , E F Soltes
Creating firm disclosures
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2019
Z An , C Chen , V Naiker , J Wang
Does media coverage deter firms from withholding bad news? Evidence from stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020
S Baginski , E Demers , C Wang , J Yu
Contemporaneous verification of language: Evidence from management earnings forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 197 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
466
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,704
RANK
141,185
5 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies