Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price-Fixing Agreements and Financial Reporting Opacity

47 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Ni Nyoman Ayu Diantini

Udayana University; The University of Western Australia

Chloe CY Ho

The University of Western Australia

Rui Zhong

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of price-fixing agreement engagement on corporate financial reporting opacity. Using a sample of U.S. cartel firms with price-fixing agreements from 1985 to 2016, we document a significant decline of financial reporting opacity when a firm engages into a price-fixing agreement. This negative relationship is robust to a battery of tests after addressing possible endogeneity concerns. Further empirical analysis shows that the negative relationship between price-fixing agreement engagement and financial reporting opacity is strengthened by product market competition, external monitoring, but is alleviated by corporate financial distress. Our findings support that managers reduce financial reporting opacity to facilitate information communication among participants via public channel and prolong the duration of price-fixing agreements, and shed light on the dark side of financial information transparency on consumer welfare in product markets.

Keywords: Price-fixing agreement, Cartel, Financial reporting opacity, Product market competition

JEL Classification: D22, D43, L15, L41, L44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Diantini, Ni Nyoman Ayu and Ho, Chloe CY and Zhong, Rui, Price-Fixing Agreements and Financial Reporting Opacity (February 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4043275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4043275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,049
RANK
234,984
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies