Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SME’s Cost of Debt: A Meta-Analysis of Borrower, Creditor and Financial Statement Verification Attributes

Journal of Entrepreneurial Finance, http://digitalcommons.pepperdine.edu/jef/vol24/iss2/1/

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Stefan Mohrmann

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

Private firm financing, given the far-reaching importance of non-publicly traded companies for global output and employment, is still a relatively underexplored area. Since the seminal work of Petersen and Rajan (1994), only a small branch of research into private firms’ cost of debt has been established. We aggregate the full body of this research that has empirically investigated antecedents of private firms’ cost of debt in a meta-analysis. The foremost antecedents can be categorized into either borrower, creditor or financial statement verification attributes. Our results reveal a set of 11 highly significant and robust determinants.

Keywords: Cost of debt, Meta-analysis, Private firms, SME

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R. and Mohrmann, Stefan, SME’s Cost of Debt: A Meta-Analysis of Borrower, Creditor and Financial Statement Verification Attributes (February 25, 2022). Journal of Entrepreneurial Finance, http://digitalcommons.pepperdine.edu/jef/vol24/iss2/1/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4043752
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies