Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commentary on the SEC’s Proposal to Mandate Private Fund Adviser Audits

3 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Date Written: February 26, 2022

Abstract

We comment on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC’s) proposal to mandate private fund adviser audits, which includes mandatory usage of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In summary, existing empirical research finds little evidence that voluntary audit and GAAP usage by private equity and venture capital funds provides benefits to funds or investors. Further, the majority of funds not required to obtain audits already do so, and the audit choice appears to involve funds weighing their fund-specific costs and benefits. As such, we suggest that the SEC revise or eliminate the proposed audit and GAAP mandates for private equity and venture capital funds.

Keywords: Private Funds, Private Equity, Venture Capital, Audit Choice, GAAP, Financial Statements

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Utke, Steven and Mason, Paul, Commentary on the SEC’s Proposal to Mandate Private Fund Adviser Audits (February 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4044733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4044733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
RANK
576,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies