Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Overconfidence and Shareholder Activism

66 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Nicolas Schreiber

Technical University of Darmstadt - Chair for Corporte Finance

Dirk Schiereck

Technical University of Darmstadt

Denis Schweizer

Concordia University

Date Written: February 26, 2022

Abstract

A key objective of shareholder activists is to persuade a firm’s management to change its strategy. CFOs play an important role in negotiations, nonetheless activism research mainly focuses on CEOs. We examine the relationship between CFO overconfidence and the likelihood to get targeted by activists. Using established overconfidence measures, we provide evidence that activists take CFO overconfidence into account when deciding to invest in a firm with firms managed by overconfident CFOs being significantly less likely to get targeted. These effects increase with the strength of CFO overconfidence and persist for different overconfidence proxies. Firms with overconfident CFOs also exhibit less positive abnormal returns after activism events. These results extend recent evidence by indicating that activists also focus on a target firm’s CFO and are likely to take the negotiation willingness of a potential target's executives into account when deciding whether to invest in a company.

Keywords: CFO characteristics, CFO overconfidence, behavioral biases, hedge fund activism, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G23, G34, G41

Suggested Citation:

Schreiber, Nicolas and Schiereck, Dirk and Schweizer, Denis, CFO Overconfidence and Shareholder Activism (February 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4044627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4044627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
162,515
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies