Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Disclosures and Investors’ Capital Rationing Incentives

50 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022 Last revised: 16 May 2023

Jeroen Suijs

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Li Azinovic-Yang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes firm disclosures and associated consequences in an entrepreneurial financing setting. We construct a model where two entrepreneurs compete for a private equity investor's capital and use disclosure to influence the investor's belief. We show that disclosure in such markets increases firms' real investment in productive activities, but may also result in capital rationing by the investor. This finding contrasts with the conventional wisdom that disclosure alleviates information asymmetry and improves firms' access to external capital. When the investor allocates capital based on firms' disclosures, a disclosure contest results and firms increase their productive investment to enhance the disclosure outcomes. We show that such a disclosure contest can result in over-investment and that equity investors can limit over-investment by reducing the amount of capital that they make available to the firms. Consequently, more disclosure in private equity markets may reduce firms' access to equity capital.

Keywords: Disclosure, Real Investment, Competition for Capital, Capital Rationing

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Suijs, Jeroen and Azinovic-Yang, Li, Firm Disclosures and Investors’ Capital Rationing Incentives (December 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4044719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4044719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
RANK
268,675
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies