Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership as a Tool for Transparency in Corporate Ghana: An Introductory Piece

Dataking Policy Brief 3, Dataking Consulting, Accra, Ghana

20 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2022 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

King C.T. Duho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Daniel Ninsin Quansah

Dataking Consulting

Date Written: February 20, 2022

Abstract

Beneficial ownership transparency and disclosure requirements are some of the topical issues today. In the past, beneficial ownership disclosure or related information has enabled researchers and investigators to draw insights on the sources of wealth and linkages to people across the world. Such information helped to have insights on the beneficial owners of businesses that are usually covert in contrast to the legal owners that are usually overt. The work of multi-stakeholder institutions has driven the progress in beneficial ownership across the world. The new developments on beneficial ownership are at the back of various investigative works which fight corruption, illicit financial flows, terrorism, money laundering and tax evasion. The new idea is to develop a database based on a standardised form that can help to lift the veil of incorporation. In so doing, it will be possible to reveal the beneficial owners of companies, trusts and state-owned enterprises. In this introductory paper, there is a review of the beneficial ownership issues in Ghana with a focus on the global context. It explored the work of the Registrar General’s Department in Ghana on beneficial ownership. There is a special focus on the resource governance issues and the tools available on beneficial ownership reporting or disclosure. The plans on beneficial ownership have also been covered. The new Company Act, 2019 (Act 992) has new concepts of beneficial ownership introduced which have been discussed. The lessons on beneficial ownership for other countries have also been covered as much as the efforts of multi-stakeholder initiatives like the extractives industry transparency initiative (EITI). The discussions on these issues provide relevant insights for practitioners, researchers and investigators to understand the new developments on beneficial ownership in Ghana within the global context.

Keywords: beneficial ownership, transparency, EITI, disclosure, Ghana, multi-stakeholder initiative

JEL Classification: D73, G2, G3, L7, O55, N57, Y20

Suggested Citation:

Duho, King C.T. and Quansah, Daniel Ninsin, Beneficial Ownership as a Tool for Transparency in Corporate Ghana: An Introductory Piece (February 20, 2022). Dataking Policy Brief 3, Dataking Consulting, Accra, Ghana, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4045402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,444
RANK
333,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies