Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private communication and management forecasts: Evidence from corporate site visit

Corporate Governance: An International Review (forthcoming)

37 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Xiaoqi Chen

Xiamen University

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

Haoyi Yang

Nanjing University

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Using corporate site visit (CSV) data from 2009 to 2016, we find that the frequency of corporate site visits is positively related to management forecast accuracy. The positive relationship between corporate site visits and forecast accuracy is stronger when visitors have greater expertise and advanced industry knowledge, and when firms are visited during a period of high business uncertainty and are subject to high sensitivity to industry shocks. These findings are consistent with the managerial learning hypothesis. Our results are robust to endogeneity concerns and alternative CSV measures.

Keywords: Corporate site visits; management forecasts; managerial learning; forecast accuracy

JEL Classification: G14; G15

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaoqi and Cheng, Agnes and Xie, Jing and Yang, Haoyi, Private communication and management forecasts: Evidence from corporate site visit (February 28, 2022). Corporate Governance: An International Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
478,373
10 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies