Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Political Leanings and COVID-19 Disclosures

53 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2022

Yixing (Ivee) Che

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies; University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Changling Chen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether the U.S. partisan gap over the COVID-19 pandemic finds its way into corporate decisions in terms of how firms communicate the impact of the pandemic to investors. Specifically, we examine whether executives’ political leanings affect their firms’ qualitative disclosures regarding the pandemic. We find that firms led by Republican-leaning executives not only provide a smaller amount of COVID disclosure in quarterly financial reports but also use language of a more positive tone, compared to firms led by Democratic-leaning executives. This finding is consistent with data from multiple surveys suggesting that Republican-leaning executives are more optimistic about the pandemic than their Democratic-leaning counterparts, yet in contrast to prior studies showing that Republican-leaning executives are generally more conservative and take greater caution in quantitative disclosures. We also find that the negative association between Republican leaning and the amount of COVID disclosure was more pronounced when the Republican party held the U.S. presidency, consistent with the prediction of partisanship alignment theory. In addition, we find that the market reacts more strongly to the tone of COVID disclosures from Republican-leaning executives.

Keywords: Political leanings, COVID-19, Corporate disclosures, Linguistic tone, 10-Q

JEL Classification: G41, M41, P16

Suggested Citation:

Che, Yixing (Ivee) and Chen, Changling and Wang, Victor Xiaoqi, Executive Political Leanings and COVID-19 Disclosures (January 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4045165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,712
RANK
337,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies