Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional investors and common ownership in the European energy sector

37 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Nicoletta Rosati

Joint Research Centre, European Commission

Pietro Bomprezzi

University of Milano - Bicocca

Maria Martinez Cillero

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

The spread of minority equity interest by large investors within productive sectors has garnered the
attention of major institutions worldwide. This work draws a picture of such “common ownership”
in the European energy industry in 2007-2018, by means of novel indicators covering both the firm’s and the investor’s perspectives. We find that in the Oil&Gas sector BlackRock, Vanguard, StateStreet and Norway hold large amounts of market value, since their shares in the held companies amount to about 14.5% of the total assets in 2018. In the Electricity market, France and China play major roles, together with BlackRock and Vanguard, and hold about 17.2% of the market’s total assets. A sizeable amount of firms is also connected through block-holdings in their investor structures, particularly in the Oil&Gas sector, with a portion of them being strongly connected. From the shareholder’s perspective, we identify some large portfolios with high correlation of investment behaviour.

Keywords: Common ownership, Industry concentration, Competition, Corporate governance, Electricity, Oil&Gas

JEL Classification: D21, D22, G10, G30, G32, G34, J41, K21, L10, L16, L21, L40, L41, L42

Suggested Citation:

Rosati, Nicoletta and Bomprezzi, Pietro and Martinez Cillero, Maria, Institutional investors and common ownership in the European energy sector (January 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4046563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4046563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies