Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Impact of the New Voluntary Disclosure on Continuous Disclosure in China: Fool-proof or Full of Loopholes?

Australian Journal of Asian Law, Vol. 22, No. 1, Article 7: 99-114, 2022

16 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2022

Belle Qi Guo

School of Private and Commercial Law, UNSW Faculty of Law & Justice

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Listed company rules governing information disclosure serve as an instrument to protect and manage investors’ vulnerability to the information asymmetry that exists in the securities market. Throughout the history of the development of securities law in China, the corporate disclosure regime has mainly centred on periodic and continuous disclosures. However, these steps have been criticised for inefficient and insufficient protection provided to investors. In response, the newly revised Securities Law of the People’s Republic of China (2019 Revision) has introduced voluntary disclosure in addition to the existing corporate disclosure provisions. This new provision considers investor decision-making sensitivity as the threshold for material information and, accordingly, factors that can influence investors’ decision-making processes have been introduced into Chinese law. This may be a positive move toward the establishment of a more transparent disclosure regime. However, questions arise regarding the impact of this new voluntary disclosure provision on the interpretation of compulsory continuous disclosure obligations. This paper argues that voluntary disclosure may create confusions and conflicts for both courts and listed companies.

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Belle Qi, An Analysis of the Impact of the New Voluntary Disclosure on Continuous Disclosure in China: Fool-proof or Full of Loopholes? (March 1, 2022). Australian Journal of Asian Law, Vol. 22, No. 1, Article 7: 99-114, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4046303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Ashley ; Black , Bloch , Merav , James Weatherhead , Jon Webster
Insider Trading and Market Misconduct', 29 Company and Securities Law Journal 313
The Development and Enforcement of Australia's Continuous Disclosure Regime , volume 29 Posted: 2011
Business Roundtable
The Materiality Standard for Public Company Disclosure: Maintain What Works
Business Roundtable Posted: 2015-10
Andrew Cassidy , Larelle Chapple
Australia's Corporate Disclosure Regime: Lessons from the US Model', 15 Australian Journal of Corporate Law 81 Posted: 2003
中国证监会有关负责人就《上市公司信息披露管理办法》答记者问 [The relevant person in charge of the China Securities Regulatory Commission answered questions on the "Administrative Measures for the Disclosure of Information of Listed Companies Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
RANK
747,544
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies