Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speak up? Listen up? Whistleblow? A Survey of ICAS Members

Project Report. ICAS, Edinburgh. Publisher's URL: https://www.icas.com/__data/assets/pdf_file/0014/523112/Speak-up-Listen-up-Whistleblow-A-Survey-of-ICAS-members.pdf

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Catriona Paisey

University of Glasgow

Nick Paisey

Heriot-Watt University

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Date Written: September 2, 2019

Abstract

This research project was conducted in two stages. First, a literature review was undertaken of research in the areas of speaking up, listening up and whistleblowing, ethics and organisational culture, and how people deal with ethical dilemmas, including the determinants of whistleblowing. This literature review was then used as the basis for a questionnaire survey of members of ICAS. The survey was distributed in the autumn of 2017 and 651 responses were received. The respondents were representative of the total membership of ICAS as regards gender, country location and work sector. Firms of all sizes were represented, with 40% of respondents working for firms with over 1000 employees and a further 31% working in firms with between 50 and 999
employees. Some of the findings are as follows: Most respondents work in organisations that have ethics policies, codes of ethics and core values. Speak up policies exist in the organisations of around two-thirds of respondents but this survey has found that listen up policies exist in less than half of organisations across all sectors. The results show a strong correlation between the size of an organisation and likelihood of having a speak up policy. Hence, accountants working for small and medium-sized organisations will often be in organisations that lack a formal, documented, speak up policy. Although a range of ethics policies exist, the details are not always known and training is not always provided. This creates an impression that there is a gap between rhetoric
and reality that is exacerbated by the finding that the policies are not always regarded as
being effective.

Keywords: Ethical dilemmas; whistleblowing; speak-up; ethics

JEL Classification: M00, M12, M14, M54

Suggested Citation:

Paisey, Catriona and Paisey, Nick and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, Speak up? Listen up? Whistleblow? A Survey of ICAS Members (September 2, 2019). Project Report. ICAS, Edinburgh. Publisher's URL: https://www.icas.com/__data/assets/pdf_file/0014/523112/Speak-up-Listen-up-Whistleblow-A-Survey-of-ICAS-members.pdf , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4046758
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
316
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies