Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Financial and Investment Activities Based on Determination of Economic Value Added (on the Example of “Kazakhstan Temirzholy” Joint Stock Company)

8 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2022

Farida Yerdavletova

Al-Farabi Kazakh National University

Saltanat Bolatkyzy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Temirkhan Mukhambetov

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bayanslu Markhayeva

Almaty Technological University

Abstract

One of the most important areas in evaluating company's effectiveness in corporate governance is assessing its investment performance. This is especially important for holding companies with multibillion differentiated investments. The most commonly used investment evaluation tools such as IRR, NPV, PI, etc. are not applicable for past investments. This study investigates whether EVA as a measure for managerial performance evaluation help actually improve organization’s performance. The conclusions obtained on the basis of assessments of the effectiveness of corporate governance show that managers make more prudent investment and operating decisions after the adoption of EVA as their performance evaluation metric. In addition, this study provides evidence that the EVA score is the most reliable indicator to show the effectiveness of implementation of the company's investment activities. In particular, it is useful for large companies, such as holdings.

Keywords: investments, efficiency of investment performance, EVA, railway transport

Suggested Citation:

Yerdavletova, Farida and Bolatkyzy, Saltanat and Mukhambetov, Temirkhan and Markhayeva, Bayanslu, Analysis of Financial and Investment Activities Based on Determination of Economic Value Added (on the Example of “Kazakhstan Temirzholy” Joint Stock Company). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4046077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4046077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Armeanu , L Lache
The NPV criterion for valuing investments under uncertainty. Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research , volume 4 Posted: 2009
V Berzakova , V Bartosova , E Kicova
Modification of EVA in Value Based Management. 4 th World Conference on Business, Economics and Management , volume 26 , p. 317 - 324 Posted: 2015
M S Cichello , C E Fee , C J Hadlock , R &sonti
Promotions, turnover, and performance evaluation: Evidence from the careers of division managers
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 4 , p. 1119 - 1143 Posted: 2009
Den Hartog , D N &verburg , R M
High performance work systems, organization al culture and firm effectiveness
Human Resource Management Journal , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 78 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
RANK
622,944
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies