Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do ESG Reporting Guidelines and Verifications Enhance Firms’ Information Disclosure?

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming

21 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Nicole Darnall

American University - Kogod School of Business; American University; American University - Sustainable Procurement Research Initiative; Arizona State University (ASU)

Hyunjung Ji

University of Alabama- Department of Political Science

Kazuyuki Iwata

Takasaki City University of Economics - Regional Policy

Toshi H. Arimura

Waseda University - School of Political Science and Economics

Date Written: February 24, 2022

Abstract

ESG reporting guidelines are institutional rules that can enhance the credibility of firms’ publicly disclosed information related to environment, social, and governance (ESG). Reporting is often voluntary and global ESG reporting guidelines typically rely on process-focused third party verification. However, in developing its reporting guidelines, the Japanese government gave firms the unusual option of pursuing either process- or content-focused verification. This paper draws on the unique Japanese setting to examine whether firms that use ESG reporting guidelines increase their quantity of disclosed sustainability information. Further, it assesses whether, given the option, firms tend to pursue process- or content-focused verification, and which type of verification leads to greater information disclosure. We show that firms that follow ESG guidelines disclose 39 percent more sustainability information compared to firms that publish sustainability reports but do not follow ESG reporting guidelines. Content-focused verification leads to greater information disclosure than process-focused verification in that firms publish 23 percent more text in their sustainability reports. Moreover, given the option, firms prefer to use content- over process-focused verification. However, most global ESG reporting guidelines endorse process-focused verification and this verification is less effective than content-focused verification at encouraging firms’ information disclosure. Our findings raise a timely and relevant question about the movement by global ESG standard developers to promote process- rather than content-focused verification. They also suggest that firms that wish to create sustainability distinction by way of ESG reporting may benefit by advocating for more robust forms of verification.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting, ESG, sustainability guidelines, non-financial reporting, sustainability information disclosure, third party verification, environmental reporting

JEL Classification: Q01, M38, Q58, M2, M20, L53, Q5, Q56, D80, D82

Suggested Citation:

Darnall, Nicole and Ji, Hyunjung and Iwata, Kazuyuki and Arimura, Toshihide H., Do ESG Reporting Guidelines and Verifications Enhance Firms’ Information Disclosure? (February 24, 2022). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4047395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4047395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
J Battilana , B Leca , E Boxenbaum
How actors change institutions: towards a theory of institutional entrepreneurship , volume 3 , p. 65 - 107 Posted: 2009
D Beare , R Buslovich , C Searcy
Linkages between corporate sustainability reporting and public policy
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 336 - 350 Posted: 2013
S Beretta , S Bozzolan
A framework for the analysis of firm risk communication
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2004
K Bewley , Y Li
Disclosure of environmental information by Canadian manufacturing companies: a voluntary disclosure perspective
Advances in Environmental Accounting and Management , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 201 - 226 Posted: 2000
Load more
4 Citations
Nicole Darnall , Konstantinos Iatridis , Effie Kesidou , Annie Snelson-Powell
Penalty Zones in International Sustainability Standards: Where Improved Sustainability Doesn’t Pay
Journal of Management Studies, https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12975 · 33 Pages · Posted: 19 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 21 May 2024 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wisdom Oghenerurie , Tushar Sinha , Kim Jones
System Resilience Indicators for Energy and Water Infrastructure Assessment in Underserved Coastal Communities
HELIYON-D-23-40185 · 44 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 64
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Álvaro Melón
The quantity and quality of narrative disclosures in management reports: CNMV guide effect
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting · 53 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hussnain Bashir , David Ogudugu , Ibrahim Pelja
The Role of Voluntary Reporting Standards in ESG Reporting
41 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2024 · Last revised: 27 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 254
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
RANK
220,473
4 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies