Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Stock-based Incentives: Evidence from Korean Firm-level Data

Seoul Journal of Economics, Vol. 35, No. 1, 2022

29 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2023

Jae-Young Kim

Seoul National University

Sun-Moon Jung

Seoul National University

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Firms often use stock-based incentives (SBIs) to attract and motivate talented employees. Thus, the question of how and on what basis to determine SBIs is an important issue for a firm. In this paper, we study determinants of SBIs based on data of Korean listed firms in 2002-2018. As a measure of SBIs, we use Portfolio Delta, the sum of Stock Delta, which represents incentives from stockholdings, and Stock Option Delta, which represents incentives from unexercised option awards. Our results show that provision of SBIs depends on both firm and individual characteristics. In particular, firm characteristics such as size, risk, and growth prospects of a firm are major determinants of overall SBI provisions. We have also found that, for business executives, individual characteristics such as careers and tenures are important determinants of SBIs. In particular, for top executives, SBIs are employed as substitutes for promotion-based incentives, whereas for newly appointed executives with relatively longer tenures, SBIs are provided as common and general incentives. These findings are consistent with results in the existing literature.

Keywords: stock-based incentives, executive compensation

JEL Classification: M12, M21

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jae-Young and Jung, Sun-Moon, Determinants of Stock-based Incentives: Evidence from Korean Firm-level Data (February 28, 2022). Seoul Journal of Economics, Vol. 35, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4047423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering stock options to gauge managerial talent
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
G P Baker , B J Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 767 - 798 Posted: 2004
L A Bebchuk , J Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
Journal of economic perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
F Black , M Scholes
The pricing of options and corporate liabilities
Journal of political economy , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 637 - 654 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
RANK
856,579
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies