Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Perils and Questionable Promise of ESG-Based Compensation

Journal of Corporation Law, Volume 48, 2022, pp. 37-75
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1090
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-10


European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 671/2022

49 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2022 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Roberto Tallarita

Harvard Law School

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

With the rising support for stakeholder capitalism and at the urging of its advocates, companies have been increasingly using environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance metrics for CEO compensation. This Article provides a conceptual and empirical analysis of this trend, and exposes its fundamental flaws and limitations. The use of ESG-based compensation, we show, has at best a questionable promise and poses significant perils.

Based partly on an empirical analysis of the use of ESG compensation metrics in S&P 100 companies, we identify two structural problems. First, ESG metrics commonly attempt to tie CEO pay to limited dimensions of the welfare of a limited subset of stakeholders. Therefore, even if these pay arrangements were to provide a meaningful incentive to improve the given dimensions, the economics of multitasking indicates that the use of these metrics could well ultimately hurt, not serve, aggregate stakeholder welfare.

Second, the push for ESG metrics overlooks and exacerbates the agency problem of executive pay, which both scholars and corporate governance rules have paid close attention. To ensure that they are designed to provide effective incentives rather than serve the interests of executives, pay arrangements need to be subject to effective scrutiny by outsiders. However, our empirical analysis shows that in almost all cases in which S&P 100 companies use ESG metrics, it is difficult if not impossible for outside observers to assess whether this use provides valuable incentives or rather merely lines CEO’s pockets with performance-insensitive pay.

The current use of ESG metrics, we conclude, likely serves the interests of executives, not of stakeholders. Expansion of ESG metrics should not be supported even by those who care deeply about stakeholder welfare.

This paper is part of a larger research project of the Harvard Law School Corporate Governance on stakeholder capitalism and stakeholderism. Other parts of this research project include The Illusory Promise of Stakeholder Governance by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, Will Corporations Deliver Value to All Stakeholders? by by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, For Whom Corporate Leaders Bargain by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, Stakeholder Capitalism in the Time of COVID by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, Does Enlightened Shareholder Value Add Value? by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, and How Twitter Pushed Stakeholders Under The Bus by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Anna Toniolo.

Keywords: corporate purpose, corporate social responsibility, stakeholders, stakeholder governance, stakeholder capitalism, compensation, corporate governance, ESG

JEL Classification: D22, G34, G38, K22, M12

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Tallarita, Roberto, The Perils and Questionable Promise of ESG-Based Compensation (March 1, 2022). Journal of Corporation Law, Volume 48, 2022, pp. 37-75
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1090
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-10
, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 671/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4048003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4048003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
E G See , A Lucian , Roberto Bebchuk , Tallarita
The Illusory Promise of Stakeholder Governance Posted: 2020
Lucian A Bebchuk , Roberto Tallarita
Will Corporations Deliver Value to All Stakeholders?, 75 VAND. L. REV. 1031 Posted: 2022
Jill E Fisch , Davidoff Steven , Solomon
Should Corporations Have a Purpose? Posted: 2021
See generally Bebchuk & Tallarita, Illusory Promise, supra note 16
Load more
34 Citations
Alfred Wagenhofer
Sustainability Reporting: A Financial Reporting Perspective
Accounting in Europe , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Lu Yang
Compensation Committee CSR-Related Expertise, CSR Contracting Quality, and Performance Implications
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 197 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Dario Latella
ESG Integration and SRI Strategies in the EU
, p. 109 Posted: 2023
Crossref
S. Leanne Keddie , Michel Magnan
Are ESG performance-based incentives a panacea or a smokescreen for excess compensation?
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 591 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,265
RANK
2,530
34 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies