Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO personality traits and structure of compensation

52 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Yao Du

National Chiao Tung University

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Chih-Yung Lin

National Chiao Tung University

Chien-Lin Lu

National Ilan University

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effects of CEO big five personalities (openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism) on their annual compensation. We hand-collect the S&P 1500 CEO tweets and use IBM personality insights to measure CEO personality. CEOs with high ratings of agreeableness and conscientiousness tend to have more compensation. We further find these firms outperform their peers. Overall, CEO personality is a valid predictor of CEO compensation. Firms are willing to pay higher compensation for CEO talents, especially for firms in better operating or located in states with higher labor unionization or facing higher production market competition.

Keywords: CEO compensation, conscientiousness, agreeableness, firm performance, and product market competition

JEL Classification: G30, G35, G40, G41

Suggested Citation:

Du, Yao and Hasan, Iftekhar and Lin, Chih-Yung and Lu, Chien-Lin, CEO personality traits and structure of compensation (February 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4049845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4049845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
B Adebambo , R M Bowen , S Malhotra , P Zhu
CEO extraversion and the cost of equity capital
, volume 3365155 Posted: 2019
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
D R Ames , E C Bianchi
The agreeableness asymmetry in first impressions: Perceivers' impulse to (mis) judge agreeableness and how it is moderated by power
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 34 , issue 12 , p. 1719 - 1736 Posted: 2008
C Anderson , O P John , D Keltner , A M Kring
Who attains social status? Effects of personality and physical attractiveness in social groups
Journal of personality and social psychology , volume 81 , issue 1 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,166
RANK
84,191
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies