Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Firms Benefit from Market Integration Mechanisms? Evidence from the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect Program

42 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022 Last revised: 26 Oct 2024

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Helen Kang

UNSW Sydney

Richard Donald Morris

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 26, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect program benefits firms listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKSE). First, we find that the Chinese government tends to select state-owned enterprises in the SSE and choose HKSE firms with shares linked to mainland China for the program. Second, we document that the stock price informativeness of HKSE firms improves after the program’s initiation but not for SSE counterparts, implying that HKSE firms benefit more from the program. Our study provides important policy implications for global security regulators in designing and implementing market-integration mechanisms worldwide.

Keywords: Shanghai Hong Kong Connect Program, Stock price informativeness, Market integration, Synchronicity, R2

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Lili and Kang, Helen Hyon Ju and Morris, Richard Donald and Pownall, Grace, Which Firms Benefit from Market Integration Mechanisms? Evidence from the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect Program (October 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4049320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4049320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M Bird
China Proportion of Trading Volume: Shanghai SE: Shanghai-HK Stock Connect: Northbound Trading
WSJ.com. CEIC Posted: 2017
K Chan , A Hameed
Stock price synchronicity and analyst coverage in emerging markets
Journal of Financial Economics , issue 80 , p. 115 - 147 Posted: 2006
K Chan , A Hameed , W Kang
Stock price synchronicity and liquidity
Journal of Financial Markets , issue 16 , p. 414 - 438 Posted: 2013
M Chan , S Kwok
Risk-sharing, market imperfections, asset prices: Evidence from China's stock market liberalization
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 84 , p. 166 - 187 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
459,150
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies