Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEOs’ Incentives for Risk-Taking or Risk-Aversion on Corporate Performance: Using CEO Vega and CEO Delta as Incentive Measures

Accountancy Business and Public Interest, 2022

20 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Samy Garas

SUNY, Plattsburgh

Kienpin Tee

James Cook University - James Cook University; affiliation not provided to SSRN

chuo-hsuan Lee

Independent

Date Written: March 3, 2022

Abstract

This article has a two-fold purpose. First, we investigate whether the CEOs’ risk-taking incentives are associated with better concurrent firm performance. Second, we examine the impact of gender on the aforementioned relationship. We find solid empirical evidence that CEOs’ risk-aversion incentive, as represented by a higher CEO delta, can be linked to better concurrent firm performance such as return on assets (ROA) and Market-to-Book Value (MTB) ratio. By contrast, we find that the risk-taking incentive, as represented by CEO vega, has no significant impact on ROA, but has a significant impact on MTB ratio only among the group of CEOs with larger share ownerships. Furthermore, we research on the same incentives using only female CEOs in our sample. Our panel-data findings indicate that female CEOs on average possessed a lower CEO delta (low risk aversion) and a lower CEO vega (risk-taking incentive) in their compensation packages when compared with their male counterparts. Taken together, these two risk incentives; are linked to a lower concurrent ROA and MTB value. Our findings also indicate that the aforementioned positive relationship between CEOs’ risk-aversion incentive (as measured by CEO delta) and firm performance (as measured by ROA) are less pronounced when a CEO is female. This implies that a female CEO is less likely to increase the firm’s ROA relative to a male CEO, given the same sensitivity of personal wealth to stock price change (i.e., the same CEO delta).

Keywords: CEO vega and CEO delta, earning management, corporate performance

Suggested Citation:

Garas, Samy and Tee, Kienpin and Lee, chuo-hsuan, The Impact of CEOs’ Incentives for Risk-Taking or Risk-Aversion on Corporate Performance: Using CEO Vega and CEO Delta as Incentive Measures (March 3, 2022). Accountancy Business and Public Interest, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4049038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4049038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Performance incentives within firms: The effect of managerial responsibility
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 1613 - 1650 Posted: 2003
G Baker , M Jensen , K Murphy
Compensation and incentives: Practice vs. theory. The journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988
N Billor , S Chatterjee , A S Hadi
A re-weighted least squares method for robust regression estimation
American Journal of Mathematical and Management Sciences , volume 26 , issue 3-4 , p. 229 - 252 Posted: 2006
I Brick , O Palmon , J Wald
CEO compensation, director compensation, and firm performance: Evidence of cronyism
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 423 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,341
RANK
260,398
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies