Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of air pollution on management earnings forecasts: evidence from China

37 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Zengfu Li

South China Normal University

yue gan

South China Normal University

Date Written: March 3, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether the low ability and unpleasant mood of managers caused by air pollution leads to lower likelihood and frequency of firms’ management earnings forecasts. We show that there is a negative relationship between air pollution and management earnings forecasts in China using a sample of 8,487 firm-year observations from 2013 to 2018. Furthermore, firms with (i) higher ability managers; (ii) optimistic managers; and (iii) top management teams with a lower average age, fewer females, and a lower average educational level had a stronger link. Our findings hold in a variety of tests of robustness.

Keywords: Air pollution; Management earnings forecasts; Ability; Mood

JEL Classification: G30, G31

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zengfu and gan, yue, The impact of air pollution on management earnings forecasts: evidence from China (March 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4049088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4049088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
678
RANK
609,870
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies