Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Factors Determining the Profitability of Tunisian Banks

21 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2022

Abdelkader Mohamed Sghaier Derbali

Department of Administrative and Financial Sciences and Techniques, Applied College, Taibah University, Saudi Arabia

Date Written: March 5, 2022

Abstract

The main objective of this paper is to study empirically the performance indicators of Tunisian banks during the period from 1999 to 2020. We use Net Interest Margin (NIM) and the Return on Assets (ROA) as profitability measures to determine the effect of bank-specific characteristics, regulatory policies, macroeconomic indicators, financial development indicators, and bank concentration and density, institutional constraints to competition and crisis on banking performance. We employ the generalized least squares (GLS) to estimate the panel model who measure the bank profitability. From the empirical findings, the profitability seems to have been positively influenced by the size, composition of assets, credit risk, concentration, market capitalization and financial crisis. The EQUITY has a positive impact on the profitability of banks. The credit risk presents a negative impact on performance. The size of the banks affects positively their performances. The financial regulations and the financial reform are statistically significant and positive. The density is statistically significant and negative. In that case, the level of the collected deposits has a negative impact on the profitability of Tunisian banks. The private credit is statistically significant and positive. The improved performance by Tunisian banks largely reflects the prudential supervision exercised by the Central Bank of Tunisia. In addition, the downturn in global financial markets has not impacted the operation of the Tunisian Financial Market. As for Tunisian banks, it should be noted that they are permitted to invest in international markets as foreign exchange non-residents. Note well that all Tunisian banks have a program to open new branches across the country to improve their performance.

Keywords: ROA; NIM; bank profitability; financial crisis; Tunisian banks

JEL Classification: G21, G32, H12

Suggested Citation:

Derbali, Abdelkader Mohamed Sghaier, The Factors Determining the Profitability of Tunisian Banks (March 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4050611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M F Akhtar , K Ali , S Sadaqat
Liquidity Risk Management: A comparative study between Conventional and Islamic Banks of Pakistan
Interdisciplinary Journal of Research in Business , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 2011
K Ali , M F Akhtar , H Z Ahmed
Bank-Specific and Macroeconomic Indicators of Profitability -Empirical Evidence from the Commercial Banks of Pakistan
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 235 - 242 Posted: 2011
S Ben Naceur
The Determinants of the Tunisian Banking Industry Profitability: Panel Evidence Posted: 2003
S Ben Naceur , M Omran
The effects of bank regulations, competition, and financial reforms on banks performance
Emerging Markets Review , volume 12 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
RANK
307,529
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies