Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Say More to Return Less? Disclosure Subsequent to Successful Technological Innovation

Journal of Empirical Finance, 2023, 70, 403-426.

58 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022 Last revised: 27 Apr 2023

Jing He

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Dongyoung Lee

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

This study examines voluntary patent disclosure following successful technological innovations and the associated cost of equity capital (COEC) consequences. We find that firms with successful innovations, proxied by economic and scientific values of patents, are more likely to voluntarily disclose patent-related information in Form 8-K filings. This finding is more pronounced for firms with lower levels of product market competition and firms with higher ex-ante information asymmetry in the market. We also find that, unlike scientific values, economic values of patents are positively associated with COEC benefits in the presence of voluntary patent disclosure. Our overall findings are consistent with the capital market theory that innovative firms use voluntary disclosure to mitigate information asymmetry for greater capital market benefits.

Keywords: Innovation; Patent disclosure; Economic value; Scientific value; Information asymmetry; Cost of capital

JEL Classification: M40; M41; O32; O34

Suggested Citation:

He, Jing and Lee, Dongyoung, Say More to Return Less? Disclosure Subsequent to Successful Technological Innovation (February 28, 2022). Journal of Empirical Finance, 2023, 70, 403-426. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4050189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4050189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
673
RANK
469,965
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies