Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Contracting and Performance-Induced CEO Turnover

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022

Bo Qin

The University of Melbourne

Lu Yang

Monash University

Date Written: March 5, 2022

Abstract

Motivated by the rise of linking CEO compensation to corporate social responsibility (hereafter, CSR contracting), we examine the impact of CSR contracting on CEO performance-induced turnover. Using a sample of S&P 500 firms with hand collected information on the use and substantiveness of CSR contracting from proxy statements between 2004–2018, we find that CSR contracting firms are associated with reduced turnover–performance sensitivity. Furthermore, CSR contracting’s effects hold regardless of CEO power, although the impact appears to be concentrated in observations both during and after the global financial crisis, in firms with superior CSR ratings, and in those managed by more able CEOs. Channel tests reveal that non-transient institutional ownership and shareholder voting support increase following CSR contracting. Jointly, these patterns are consistent with the notion that CSR contracting helps signal a firm’s long-term strategies, attract investors for whom social returns are an issue, and build trust between a firm and its investors, thereby reducing the importance of short-term financial performance related to CEO dismissal decisions.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, performance measurement, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Qin, Bo and Yang, Lu, CSR Contracting and Performance-Induced CEO Turnover (March 5, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4050250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
The relation between strategy, CEO selection, and firm performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 1575 - 1606 Posted: 2019
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
RANK
229,982
16 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies