Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Greenhouse Gas Disclosures

56 UC Davis Law Review, No. 1

UCLA School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 22-11

62 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2022 Last revised: 17 Nov 2022

Lynn M. LoPucki

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law; University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: May 20, 2022

Abstract

On March 21, 2022, the SEC proposed a rule that would make corporate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting mandatory. That decision may break the impasse over whether corporate social responsibility reporting should be designed solely for the benefit of investors—single materiality—or for the benefit of investors and the public—double materiality. In corporate greenhouse gas disclosure, the materiality debate pitted the double-materiality Corporate Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) against the single-materiality Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. SASB capitulated in November 2021 by joining a single-materiality alliance that accepts the GHG Protocol. The SEC’s proposed rule tracks the GHG Protocol. Mandatory reporting to some version of the GHG Protocol now appears inevitable in the United States.

The GHG Protocol is the dominant reporting standard, but dozens of other protocols, standards, and frameworks, including SASB’s, authorize deviations. This Article presents the first comprehensive study of voluntary corporate GHG reporting. The study consists of two parts: (1) a review of the complex array of protocols, standards, and frameworks that govern voluntary GHG reporting and (2) an empirical analysis of the 2020 GHG disclosures of two hundred randomly selected S&P 500 companies. The review reveals several loopholes in the GHG Protocol, including options for converting other gases to CO2 equivalents, options for setting firm boundaries, the ability to exclude categories of emissions, and the omission of biogenic CO2 emissions from the reports. The empirical analysis, however, reveals little evidence of companies exploiting the loopholes. The empirical analysis shows an eighty-one percent reporting rate for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.

Public use of the GHG data will be possible only through rankings by trusted intermediaries. This Article proposes methods for ranking S&P 500 companies based on corporate GHG emissions reports. It demonstrates those methods by ranking the studied companies.



Keywords: corporation, climate change, corporate social responsibility, environmental, greenhouse gas, Greenhouse Gas Protocol, corporate governance, stakeholders, stakeholder markets, ESG, CSR, CSR reporting, rankings, S&P 500.

JEL Classification: Q58

Suggested Citation:

LoPucki, Lynn M., Corporate Greenhouse Gas Disclosures (May 20, 2022). 56 UC Davis Law Review, No. 1, UCLA School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 22-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
E G See , Rep Glob , Initiative
The organization must comply with all nine requirements in this section to report in accordance with the GRI Standards Posted: 2021
Glob Reporting Initiative , Gri 305
, volume 7 Posted: 2016
Because the use of the SASB standards is voluntary, requirements of a standard (as indicated by "shall" clauses), along with the guidance contained herein
SASB STANDARDS APPLICATION GUIDANCE: VERSION 2018-10 Posted: 2018
See
CORP. REPORTING DIALOGUE, DRIVING ALIGNMENT IN CLIMATE-RELATED REPORTING , volume 229 Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
Mikko Rajavuori , Annalisa Savaresi , Harro van Asselt
Mandatory due diligence laws and climate change litigation: Bridging the corporate climate accountability gap?
22 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 28 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 644
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S.P. Kothari , Liandong Zhang , Luo Zuo
Disclosure Regulation: Past, Present, and Future
Handbook of Financial Decision Making, Forthcoming · 32 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 1,345
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
950
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,874
RANK
56,143
2 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies