Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership along the Supply Chain and Corporate Earnings Management

48 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022 Last revised: 30 Mar 2022

Lei Gao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Jianlei Han

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Zheyao Pan

Macquarie University

Date Written: March 30, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the relation between common institutional ownership along the supply chain and earnings management by supplier firms. Using a sample of U.S. publicly traded firms for the period of 1980–2016, we find that common ownership along the supply chain reduces the level of a supplier’s discretionary accruals, suggesting that it discourages the supplier firm from engaging in upward earnings management via manipulation of discretionary accruals. This effect is more pronounced for firms with greater relationship-specific investments, lower information transparency, and higher levels of product market threat. We further find that common ownership also reduces the extent to which the supplier firm engages in real earnings management. The above findings are robust to potential endogeneity checks. Overall, our results suggest that common institutional ownership along the supply chain plays a significant role in curbing opportunistic earnings management, both accrual-based and real, by the supplier firm.

Keywords: Supply Chain; Common Institutional Ownership; Earnings Management; Institutional Investors.

JEL Classification: M40; G23; G32.

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Lei and Han, Jianlei and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Pan, Zheyao, Common Ownership along the Supply Chain and Corporate Earnings Management (March 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4051286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,684
RANK
185,725
4 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies