Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Media and Investor Monitoring

Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Research Paper

53 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2025 Last revised: 2 Jan 2025

Nicholas Guest

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Ashish Ochani

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management; Cornell University, Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management, Department of Accounting

Mani Sethuraman

Cornell University - Department of Accounting; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: September 25, 2024

Abstract

We provide evidence that a firm’s investor base is a key factor in determining its media coverage. Using a large sample of U.S. public companies spanning the period 2000-2019, we find that firm-specific media coverage is negatively associated with leverage. Our results suggest the media caters relatively more to equity investors, who largely rely on public information for monitoring, than to debt investors, who are often privy to privileged information. We arrive at similar conclusions when we exploit plausibly exogenous changes in investor base and investors’ access to privileged information. Among debt investors, the media appears to cater to public bond holders more than private banks. Among equity investors, the media appears to cater to quasi-index institutions. Additionally, cross-sectional variation in media coverage based on investment and article types reveals that the media’s role is far more nuanced than previously documented. Overall, our findings suggest that financial media coverage is significantly influenced by demand for public information from professional investors who are less likely to be privately informed.

Keywords: financial media, leverage, institutional ownership, investor base, banks, monitoring

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G23, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guest, Nicholas and Ochani, Ashish and Sethuraman, Mani, The Financial Media and Investor Monitoring (September 25, 2024). Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4051960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
I Appel , T Gormley , D Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1-3 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
M Berlin , J Loeys
Bond covenants and delegated monitoring
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 397 - 412 Posted: 1988
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,283
RANK
130,619
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies