Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partially Observable Corporate Social Responsibility: The Limits of Differentiation

36 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2022

Aleix Calveras

Universitat de les Illes Balears

Jozsef Sakovics

The University of Edinburgh

Abstract

We investigate investment incentives in credence corporate social responsibility under different market structures. In duopoly, for high enough investment transparency (IT) exactly one firm invests in the clean technology: they differentiate their products. If the firms merge, with high enough IT and product traceability,the monopolist also invests in (only) one plant but the necessary IT for investment is higher. Without product traceability, whenever the monopolist invests it is in both plants, but the IT required for investment is even higher. We conclude that ‘green’ competition policy must be nuanced, taking into account (or regulating)both transparency and traceability.

Keywords: credence goods, traceability, transparency

Suggested Citation:

Calveras, Aleix and Sakovics, Jozsef, Partially Observable Corporate Social Responsibility: The Limits of Differentiation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4051296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
P Aghion , R Bénabou , R Martin , A Roulet
Environmental preferences and technological choices: Is market competition clean or dirty? Posted: 2020
G Akerlof
Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
J Andreoni , S-C Kolm , J Mercier Ythier
Philanthropy
Handbook of Giving, Reciprocity and Altruism , p. 1201 - 1269 Posted: 2006
M Bailey , H Packer , L Schiller , M Tlusty , W Swartz
The role of corporate social responsibility in creating a Seussian world of seafood sustainability
Fish and Fisheries , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 782 - 790 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
841,369
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies