Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19, Working Capital, and Stock Returns: Evidence from India

9 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2022

Vishnu K Ramesh

Amrita School of Business, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Bengaluru,Karnataka, 560035, India

Reshma Ramesh

Government of India - Indian Overseas Bank

Jithesh T

Canara Bank

Date Written: September 1, 2021

Abstract

In this article, we investigate the impact of constituents of working capital (cash, inventory, receivables,short-term debt, and payables) on stock returns of Indian listed firms during the first quarter of 2020 (beginning phase of COVID-19). To mitigate endogeneity concerns, we measure working capital components before the crisis. Our results suggest that firms that held cash prior to the COVID crisis are positively associated with stock returns during the crisis period. Our results also indicate that short-term borrowing and accounts receivables were negative determinants of stock returns during the first quarter of the crisis period. We also document that cash reserves were a strong predictor of firm profitability during the crisis. Overall, our results suggest that cash reserves are an essential component of liquidity that helps firms manage crises

Keywords: Working capital, Cash reserves, Short-term borrowings, COVID-19, Crisis, Firm performance

Suggested Citation:

K Ramesh, Vishnu and Ramesh, Reshma and T, Jithesh, COVID-19, Working Capital, and Stock Returns: Evidence from India (September 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4051903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
V V Acharya , S Steffen
The Risk of Being a Fallen Angel and the Corporate Dash for Cash in the Midst of COVID. The Review of Corporate Finance Studies Posted: 2020
N Aktas , E Croci , D Petmezas
Is working capital management value-enhancing? Evidence from firm performance and investments
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 30 , p. 98 - 113 Posted: 2015
H Almeida , M Campello , I Cunha , M S Weisbach
Corporate Liquidity Management: A Conceptual Framework and Survey , volume 46 Posted: 2014
R Banerjee , A Illes , E Kharroubi , J.-M Serena
Covid-19 and corporate sector liquidity Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
RANK
605,468
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies