Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving from Accounting For People to Accounting With People: A Critical Analysis of the Literature and Avenues for Research

N/A

43 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Marie-Anne Verdier

University of Toulouse 3, Paul Sabatier University

Date Written: March 5, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to provide a critical review of the “accounting for people” literature and to suggest avenues for research that encourage this literature to take a radical emancipatory turn by using dialogic accounting. Our review covers the past five decades and concentrates on a corpus of 109 articles published in 22 accounting journals. Although the social agenda was initially central to the rise in the accounting for people literature, it was quickly supplanted by economic and financial objectives. The more recent focus on Human Capital (HC), driven by the emergence of a new spirit of capitalism, appears to have breathed new life into the accounting for people literature. However, the HC concept also (i) simplifies humans’ subjective qualities by overquantification through a reification process that extends the sphere of commodification to humans and (ii) reinforces labor control processes. We highlight the need for future literature to move from the “accounting for people” approach to an “accounting with people” approach to really give a voice to humans, and outline the potential of dialogic HC accounts for achieving that aim.

Keywords: human capital, literature review, critical accounting, accounting for people, dialogic accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Verdier, Marie-Anne, Moving from Accounting For People to Accounting With People: A Critical Analysis of the Literature and Avenues for Research (March 5, 2022). N/A, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Self-sorting, incentive compensation and human-capital assets
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 661 - 697 Posted: 2003
I Abeysekera
Motivations behind human capital disclosure in annual reports
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2008
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
Human capital reporting in a developing nation
The British Accounting Review , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 268 Posted: 2004
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
538,134
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies