Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proactive Disclosure of Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) and Firm Performance

Posted: 8 Mar 2022

Abiodun S. Isiaka

University of Regina

Chima Mbagwu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Date Written: March 7, 2022

Abstract

This exploratory study examines whether firm financial performance and the strength of corporate governance are associated with the proactive disclosure of coronavirus risks. In addition, we examine whether firms that proactively disclose are more likely to provide updates to their initial risk disclosures than those that do not.

We are motivated by the need to understand factors that drive managers’ disclosure of unexpected and unusual risks caused by events over which they have little control. We find a negative association between firm performance, measured as Return on Assets (ROA) and Return on Equity (ROE) and the proactive disclosure of COVID-19 risk. In addition, we find a negative association between the strength of corporate governance and proactive COVID-19 risk disclosure. This result suggests that firms with weaker performance, measured as ROA and ROE, and firms with weaker corporate governance measured using a composite index of governance quality are more likely to proactively disclose coronavirus risks. Last, we find that firms that proactively disclose coronavirus risks in their item 1A are more likely to update those disclosures and disclose even more coronavirus related risks compared to those that do not. These findings are robust to an alternative measure for the disclosure of coronavirus risks.

The outcome of this research provides an insight into the characteristics of firms that are more forthcoming in their disclosures. The findings are also informative to regulators on the need for further enforcement mechanisms as risk factor disclosures may not be timely in informing users of the annual report.

Keywords: Disclosure; coronavirus; COVID; Firm Performance; Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Isiaka, Abiodun and Mbagwu, Chima, Proactive Disclosure of Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) and Firm Performance (March 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052095
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies