Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Uncertainty, Earnings Management and the Role of Political Connections

46 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2022

Moritz Hölzer

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics - Chair of Accounting and Control

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: March 23, 2022

Abstract

Extant literature engages with the question how political uncertainty shapes firms’ financial disclosures and earnings management choices. We show that political connections are an efficient risk management response to political uncertainty. More specifically, we show that lobbying moderates the positive association of political uncertainty and earnings management. As such, we contribute to the vibrant field of research at the intersection of political sciences and business economics. Our study is robust to different specifications of earnings management, potential self-selection bias as well as omitted variable concerns.

Keywords: Policy uncertainty, earning management, political connections, lobbying

Suggested Citation:

Hölzer, Moritz and Loy, Thomas R. and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Policy Uncertainty, Earnings Management and the Role of Political Connections (March 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4052786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Abdurakhmonov , J W Ridge , A D Hill , H Loncarich
Strategic Risk and Lobbying: Investigating Lobbying Breadth as Risk Management
Journal of Management Posted: 2021
M Adelino , I S Dinc
Corporate Distress and Lobbying: Evidence from the Stimulus Act
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 114 , issue 2 , p. 256 - 272 Posted: 2014
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , M Grady
Corporate Lobbying, Political Protection, and Earnings Management
Mays School Research Paper Posted: 2018
A Alesina
Macroeconomic Policy in a Two-Party System as a Repeated Game*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 678 Posted: 1987
Load more
1 Citations
Riccardo Palumbo , Pierangelo Rosati
Exploring the Relationship between New Bank Debt and Earnings Management: Evidence from Italian SMEs
Economies , volume 10 , issue 6 , p. 124 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
RANK
175,011
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies