Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do terrorist attacks matter to dividend policy?

Corporate Governance: An International Review

42 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Trung K. Do

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Date Written: September 17, 2021

Abstract

Research Question/Issue:
Motivated by the importance of dividend policy in corporate finance as well as the rising frequency and severity of terrorism in society, this study aims to investigate whether and how dividend policy is influenced by terrorist attacks.

Research Findings/Insights:
Using a comprehensive sample of terrorist attacks occurring in the U.S. between 1994 to 2015, we find that relative to firms located in safety areas (non-impact firms), firms headquartered in terrorism-affected areas (impact firms) are more likely to pay dividends and pay higher amount of cash dividends. We further find that the effect of terrorist attacks on dividends is driven by agency costs of free cash flow.

Theoretical/Academic Implications:
We contribute to the literature by shedding light on how the terrorism affects firms’ dividend preferences. We highlight that uncertainty caused by terrorism heightens the need for dividend payouts in the presence of free cash flow. Our paper also adds to the existing literature by showing that better corporate governance quality as defined by more independent board featuring CEO–chairman separation and greater presence of independent directors, coupled with larger institutional investors have a crucial role in mitigating the impact of terrorism on corporate payout policy.

Practitioner/Policy Implications:
Public firms should regard dividend policy as a governance tool that reduce agency costs during times of uncertainty. The results of this study strengthen the idea that institutional investors can play a key role in the corporate governance. As such, for investors, as far as agency costs are concerned, investments in firms that have a higher proportion of institutional holdings are sensible.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Terrorist Attacks; Dividend Payouts; Agency Theory

JEL Classification: G14, G35, K42

Suggested Citation:

Do, Trung K., Do terrorist attacks matter to dividend policy? (September 17, 2021). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
Terrorism and the world economy
European Economic Review , volume 52 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2008
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: A comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
K R Ahern
The importance of psychology in economic activity: Evidence from terrorist attacks Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
778,745
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies