Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Cashflow Performance Metrics Incentivize CEOs to be Better Innovators?

Journal of Management Accounting Research

Posted: 10 Mar 2022 Last revised: 15 Feb 2024

Qi (Flora) Dong

Kennesaw State University

Yiting Cao

California State University, Los Angeles

Victoria Dickinson

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Hongrui Feng

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 4, 2024

Abstract

Building on prior research showing a positive link between internally generated cash flows and
innovation output, we hypothesize and find that the inclusion of cash-flow performance metrics in CEOs’compensation contracts positively impacts firm innovation. Our findings are consistent with the theory that cash-flow metrics incentivize CEOs to make prudent investment decisions, thereby addressing both the overinvestment and the underinvestment challenges for firm innovation. As a result, firms utilizing cash-flow metrics exhibit lower innovation input and higher innovation output compared to firms not employing such metrics. Furthermore, our research indicates that the incentive effect of cash-flow metrics on firm innovation is more pronounced when cash flows convey unique information not reflected in earnings and when CEOs have longer expected employment horizons. This study underscores the effectiveness of cash-flow metrics in motivating management to promote firm innovation.

Keywords: innovation output; innovation input; performance metrics; cash-flow metrics; CEO incentives; executive compensation

JEL Classification: D81, G30, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Qi (Flora) and Cao, Yiting and Dickinson, Victoria and Feng, Hongrui, Do Cashflow Performance Metrics Incentivize CEOs to be Better Innovators? (January 4, 2024). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052968
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies