Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiple Directorships and Audit Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from Effort Allocation

European Accounting Review 32 (5): 1273-1306.

47 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Xinming Liu

Xiamen University

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Hung-Chao Yu

National Chengchi University

Zhen Zheng

Xiamen University

Date Written: March 9, 2022

Abstract

Recent post-SOX studies have consistently found that the presence of audit committee (AC) directors with multiple directorships is associated with lower financial reporting quality. An implicit assumption of these studies is that AC directors distribute their effort equally across all their directorships. Using a firm size-based proxy and firm risk-based (i.e., probabilities of litigation and of misstatements) proxies to measure relative directorship importance, we investigate (1) whether and how AC directors who serve on multiple AC directorships allocate their effort to different directorships unequally, and (2) whether the unequal prioritization of effort across multiple AC directorships relates to AC monitoring effectiveness. We find a positive (no) relation between the risk-based (firm size-based) directorship importance measures and AC effectiveness, suggesting that AC directors serving on multiple boards unequally allocate their effort to different directorships based on incentives related to firm risk and not to firm size. Our results have relevance for regulators, boards of directors, investors, and other stakeholders.

Keywords: Audit committee, Audit fees, Auditor choice, Multiple directorship

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xinming and Lobo, Gerald J. and Yu, Hung-Chao and Zheng, Zhen, Multiple Directorships and Audit Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from Effort Allocation (March 9, 2022). European Accounting Review 32 (5): 1273-1306., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4053590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Enhancing the Audit Committee Report: A Call to Action Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
RANK
267,591
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies