Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of ESG Disclosures in Pillar 3 Reports. A Text Mining Approach

Banco de Espana Occasional Paper No. 2204

28 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2022

Angel Ivan Moreno

Banco de España

Teresa Caminero

Banco de España

Date Written: March 8, 2022

Abstract

Disclosure of prudential information on environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks will become mandatory from June, 2022 for large institutions with securities traded on a regulated market of any Member State. This paper tries to assess how prepared European financial institutions are for this requirement and applies text mining techniques to analyse the prudential reports, commonly referred to as Pillar 3 reports, for 2019 and 2020 of most of the significant banks under the ECB direct supervision in order to evaluate the level of awareness of these institutions in relation to the materiality of ESG risks. By applying a simple taxonomy of terms based on lexicons and regular expressions using a tool that we have developed, we are able to identify relevant excerpts with a high level of precision searching for different combinations of concepts within the taxonomy of terms. The results indicate that although there is an increased awareness of the ESG risks, with a significant increase in smaller institutions (those with less tan 30 billion in assets), the level of detail included is generally low and the introduction of the new ESG mandatory disclosures should have a significant impact on the level of disclosures in this area.

Keywords: ESG, environment, social, governance, sustainability, climate change, carbon emissions, environmental risks, physical risk, transition risk, natural language processing, Pillar 3

JEL Classification: C81, G32, Q56, Q54, C19

Suggested Citation:

Moreno, Angel Ivan and Caminero, Teresa, Analysis of ESG Disclosures in Pillar 3 Reports. A Text Mining Approach (March 8, 2022). Banco de Espana Occasional Paper No. 2204, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4053354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
DIS Disclosure requirements DIS10 Definitions and applications
Draft Implementing Standards on prudential disclosures on ESG risks in accordance with Article 449a CRR Posted: 2019
EBA report on management and supervision of ESG risks for credit institutions and investment Posted: 2021
Guide on climate-related and environmental risks. Supervisory expectations relating to risk management and disclosure Posted: 2020
ECB report on institutions' climate-related and environmental risk disclosures Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
119,702
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banco de Espana Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies