Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ Book Value Forecasts: Initial Evidence from a Perspective of Real-Options-Based Valuation

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Alfred Z. Liu

Louisiana Tech University - College of Business

Jr, Richard Schneible

Grand Valley State University

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: February 27, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the usefulness of analysts’ book value forecasts and the economic factors driving analysts’ issuance of these forecasts. We first establish that analysts’ book value forecasts are superior to forecasts that are mechanically imputed from analysts’ own earnings forecasts and those from random walk models and are incrementally informative beyond analysts’ earnings, cash flow, and dividend forecasts. We then employ real-options-based valuation theory (Zhang 2000) to explore the distinct information embedded in book value forecasts and analysts’ decisions to issue these forecasts. Consistent with our expectations, we find that (i) book value forecasts convey growth information that is significantly correlated with ex ante indicators of real options, while analysts’ earnings forecasts do not display this property; and that (ii) analysts issue more book value forecasts when either growth options or, to a lesser extent, abandonment options are an important part of firm value. Our study sheds light on how analysts’ book value forecasts are useful and under what circumstances analysts provide such information to meet investors’ needs.

Keywords: Analyst forecasts; Book value; Equity Valuation

JEL Classification: G14, G17

Suggested Citation:

Hui, Kai Wai and Liu, Alfred and Schneible, Jr, Richard and Zhang, Guochang, Analysts’ Book Value Forecasts: Initial Evidence from a Perspective of Real-Options-Based Valuation (February 27, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4054987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4054987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Is the US stock market myopic
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
R Ball , E Ghysels
Automated earnings forecasts: Beat analysts or combine and conquer?
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 10 , p. 4936 - 4952 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
RANK
291,202
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies