Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-Term Bankruptcy Prediction. Systematic Literature Review

Research in Corporate Finance

24 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022

Piotr Ratajczak

Poznań University of Economics and Business

Dawid Szutowski

Poznan University of Economics and Business - Department of Controlling, Financial Analysis and Valuation

Aleksandra Szulczewska-Remi

Poznań University of Economics and Business, Department of Controlling, Financial Analysis and Valuation, Students

Date Written: March 10, 2022

Abstract

The optimal forecasting horizon of bankruptcy prediction models is usually one year as beyond this point their accuracy substantially decreases. This common opinion may however ceased to be valid as development of big data processing methods has created new research possibilities in many areas of social sciences. Our research aimed at outlining the ways scientists follow to increase long-term corporate bankruptcy prediction accuracy. We conducted systematic literature review following meta-narrative assumptions to synthesis and analysis of the information acquired from 15 selected papers. Our results indicate that there are few theoretical and methodological approaches scientists may use to actually find high accuracy of long-term bankruptcy prediction.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, financial distress, prediction, long-term, machine learning

JEL Classification: G32, M14, O16, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Ratajczak, Piotr and Szutowski, Dawid and Szulczewska-Remi, Aleksandra, Long-Term Bankruptcy Prediction. Systematic Literature Review (March 10, 2022). Research in Corporate Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4054665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4054665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
V V Acharya , S T Bharath , A Srinivasan
Does industry-wide distress affect defaulted firms? Evidence from creditor recoveries
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 787 - 821 Posted: 2007
E I Altman
American Finance Association Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Source: The Journal of Finance , volume 23 Posted: 1968
S Balcaen , H Ooghe
35 years of studies on business failure: An overview of the classic statistical methodologies and their related problems
British Accounting Review , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 93 Posted: 2006
E Benmelech , N K Bergman
Bankruptcy and the Collateral Channel
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 2 , p. 337 - 378 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
RANK
252,662
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Bankruptcy, Financial Distress & Reorganization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies