Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Zombies Stay Alive?

29 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2022

Benjamin Goldwater

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

In this paper, I explore the role that trends in debt capital markets have on the rise in corporate “zombies,” which many economists define as companies having greater interest expenses than their pre-interest earnings. Additionally, I attempt to articulate the implications of a growing abundance of corporate zombies. The central question I address is how do zombie companies sustain themselves? Topics this paper explores include, a ‘reach for yield’ by investors, the rise of CLOs, relaxation of protections in credit documents, rise in the use of debt exchanges (DEs), and payment in kind (PIK).

I point to a rise in zombie companies, dating back to the 1980s and that this trend has the potential to have a negative impact on broader economic growth due to the inefficiency of zombies relative to their peers and as exemplified by the Japanese economy in the 1990s. In a market environment in which risk-free interest rates and risk spreads have declined, investors in debt markets have ‘reached for yield,’ accepting lower quality loans in hopes to increase the yield to maturity on the corporate paper they hold. That degradation in loan quality shows up both in the composition of ratings of speculative grade loans and in the weakening of covenant language in debt agreements – the rules in debt contracts generally designed to protect creditors. By the time the pandemic started, about 80% of leveraged loans were ‘covenant lite,’ meaning lenders had little ability to intervene when the financial health of borrowers degraded, extending the time when zombie firms can persist. Further, adjustments to profitability metrics have become more permissive, enabling borrowers to sustain higher levels of debt tied to those metrics. Perhaps spurred by the popularity of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), which structurally create incentives for debt investors to keep debt balances high, and a rise in covenant lite debt contracts, out-of-court debt restructurings – in the form of debt exchanges – have overtaken bankruptcies as the preferred venue for dealing with distress. 30% of public firms that underwent a distressed debt exchange between 2017 and mid-2019 filed for bankruptcy by the end of 2019, evidence that these debt exchanges may delay the inevitable for distressed firms and prolong zombie-ism. Payment in Kind (PIK) repayment mechanism that allow borrowers to take on additional debt instead of paying their interest expenses in cash have become the norm, especially in loans used for leveraged buyouts. The optionality that PIK creates to accrue additional debt increases the likelihood that leverage will increase, especially during times of distress for firms that don’t produce enough cash.

All of these factors are worrying from the perspective of market participants and a broad set of stakeholders in the economy. Given the dangers of rampant corporate zombification to investment returns and growth of the economy, the tinder being laid down will need to be addressed through controlled fires to avoid dubious market and societal outcomes.

Keywords: distress, restructuring, zombies, zombie company, zombification, leverage, bankruptcy, credit, PIK, payment in kind, distressed exchange, debt exchange, EBITDA adjustments, CLOs, collateralized loan obligations

JEL Classification: G01, G11, G14, G18, G23 , G34

Suggested Citation:

Goldwater, Benjamin, How Do Zombies Stay Alive? (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4054952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4054952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
E I Altman , Tand Kant , T Rattanaruengyot
Post-Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Performance: Avoiding Chapter
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 51 - 61 Posted: 2009
E Altman , B Karlin
The Re-Emergence of Distressed Exchanges in Corporate Restructurings
Journal of Credit Risk , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 56 Posted: 2009
E Altman , B Karlin
Defaults & Returns in the High Yield Bond and Distressed Debt Markets Posted: 2010-02
E Altman , B Kuehne
The Investment Performance & Market Dynamics of Defaulted and Distressed Bonds and Bank Loans: 2007 Review and 2018 Outlook Posted: 2018-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
531
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
RANK
120,559
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies