Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Share Buyback Process on Financial Performance: An Economic and Accounting Perspective: Evidence from Egypt

16 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2022 Last revised: 18 Apr 2022

Hossam Sharawi Hassan

Independent

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 11, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the impact of the share buyback process and its motives on financial performance from an accounting and economic perspective. The study sample consisted of 66 firms listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange from 2009 to 2020 and employed the OLS regression analysis. The results show a positive effect of share buybacks on financial performance, measured by the added economic value (EVA) and the return on equity (ROE). In contrast, the results show an insignificant effect of share buybacks on the return on assets (ROA). The study found that management’s motives to buy back shares affect a company’s financial performance. The study also found that management’s motive to achieve a cash surplus improves the company’s financial performance. The study also found that the company’s management motive to increase earnings per share is one of the most important motives for the company to buy back shares, which also improves the company’s financial performance. The study also showed that the economic value added (EVA) is one of the most important measures of financial performance, in which the repurchase of shares had the most significant impact in improving it over the return on assets or the return on equity. However, the study did not find evidence that the firms repurchase of shares out of increased financial leverage affects the financial performance. Moreover, the study found that increasing earnings per share is the most crucial motive for sharing buybacks in the Egyptian market.

Keywords: Share buyback, economic value added, return on equity, return on assets, Egypt

JEL Classification: M41, M40, G10

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Hossam Sharawi, The Impact of the Share Buyback Process on Financial Performance: An Economic and Accounting Perspective: Evidence from Egypt (March 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4055671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4055671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Abraham , J Harris , J Auerbach
Determinants and consequences of share repurchase decisions
Modern Economy , volume 9 , issue 5 Posted: 2018
A Al Mamun , H Entebang , S A Mansor
EVA as Superior Performance Measurement
Modern Economy , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 310 - 318 Posted: 2012
M Albany , D S Said
Impact of Open-Market Share Repurchases on Long-Term Stock Returns: Evidence from the Malaysian Market
SAGE Open , volume 6 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The actual effects of share repurchase
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,187
RANK
267,591
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies