Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do More Able Managers Provide Better Non-Gaap Earnings?

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Robert Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 12, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates whether managerial ability is associated with non-GAAP earnings quality. I find that the quality of non-GAAP earnings is greater for high-ability managers than low-ability managers. I also find that investors consider non-GAAP earnings released by high-ability management to be informative. Additional tests show that the positive association between managerial ability and the quality of non-GAAP earnings is stronger when return volatility or managerial stock ownership is greater. The results are robust to alternative measures of managerial ability and non-GAAP earnings quality and to controlling for endogeneity bias. Overall, this paper provides evidence that managers of high ability use non-GAAP reporting as a signaling tool to reduce information asymmetry.

Keywords: Managerial ability, Managerial efficiency, Non-GAAP earnings, Voluntary disclosure, Information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G14, M12, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Robert, Do More Able Managers Provide Better Non-Gaap Earnings? (March 12, 2022). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4055714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of coporate voluntary disclosure
Journal of Accountig and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
P Andreou , I Karasamani , C Louca , D Ehrlich
The impact of managerial ability on crisis-period corporate investment
Journal of Business Research , volume 79 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 2017
B Baik , P Brockman , D Farber , S Lee
Managerial ability and the quality of firms' information environment
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 33 , p. 506 - 527 Posted: 2018
B Baik , J Chae , S Choi , D Farber
Changes in operational efficiency and firm performance: a frontier approach , volume 30 , p. 996 - 1026 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
RANK
549,043
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies