Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Information Provided by Dual-Class Firms

57(3) American Business Law Journal 443-486 (2020)

34 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2022

Dov Solomon

College of Law and Business - Ramat Gan Law School

Rimona Palas

College of Law and Business

Amos Baranes

Peres Academic Center

Date Written: October 29, 2020

Abstract

When Google went public with a dual-class capital structure in which shares owned by the founders confer greater voting rights than shares issued to public investors, its cofounders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, promised to provide investors with high-quality information about the company. Using the words of Warren Buffett, the chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, another dual-class firm, they promised shareholders, “We won’t ‘smooth’ quarterly or annual results: If earnings figures are lumpy when they reach headquarters, they will be lumpy when they reach you.” Page, Brin, and Buffett definitely understood the importance of quality information to their investors, especially in dual-class structures. But do dual-class companies really provide investors with credible financial information? Contrary to the assumption of agency theory that dual-class firms are less transparent, we find empirically that these companies do provide credible information to their investors. Our results suggest that the quality of financial reports, as measured by their ability to predict change in future earnings, is higher for dual-class companies than for their single-class counterparts. These findings may be explained by the unique relations created in dual-class firms in which the founders provide investors with higher-quality information in exchange for superior voting rights. The article contributes to the heated debate about the transparency of dual-class companies by providing policymakers with important insights on the quality of information provided by these companies. Our findings suggest that there is no need for stricter regulation with regard to disclosure of financial information by dual-class firms.

Keywords: dual-class shares, shareholder voting, investor protection, agency costs, controlling shareholders, management accountability, disclosure, corporate governance, exit, voice, earnings quality, financial reports

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Solomon, Dov and Palas, Rimona and Baranes, Amos, The Quality of Information Provided by Dual-Class Firms (October 29, 2020). 57(3) American Business Law Journal 443-486 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4056471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Institutional Shareholder See , U S Servs
PROXY VOTING GUIDELINES , volume 30 Posted: 2019
See Ken Bertsch , Exec Dir
Council of Institutional Inv'rs, Unequal Voting Rights in Common Stock
Remarks to the SEC Investor Advisory Committee Posted: 2017-03-09
See S&p Dow
S&P Dow Jones also announced that the S&P Global BMI Indices, S&P Total Market Index, and other S&P and Dow Jones-branded indices would not be affected by this change Posted: 2017-07-31
Id , See Joseph , A Hall , Michael Kaplan
A newly public company spun off from a current S&P Composite 1500 index constituent would not need to meet the criteria for new additions to the index, and so would effectively benefit from its parent's grandfathering
Snap Decision: Leading Index Providers Nix Multi-Class Shares Posted: 2017-08-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
876
RANK
467,197
5 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies