Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Leverage Deviation on Choices and Outcomes of Public Versus Non-Public Acquisitions

International Journal of Finance & Economics, 26(3), 3436-3459, 2021

51 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022

Yousry Ahmed

University of Bristol; Zagazig University

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms’ deviation from target leverage may predict types and outcomes of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) deals. We find that over-levered firms are more inclined to be involved in public acquisitions than non-public acquisitions. Consistent with the proposition of information economics theory, our findings suggest that information asymmetry is the main motive behind over-levered firms’ preference for public targets. Specifically, we observe that over-levered acquirers not only prefer public targets, but also pick those with less information asymmetry. We find that, in the short term, the market reacts negatively to the announcement of public acquisitions by over-levered firms. However, in the long term these acquirers experience better operating synergies and values, measured by changes in ROA and Tobin’s q, respectively. Our results are robust after controlling for M&A deals-, firm-, industry-characteristics and endogeneity concerns using both propensity score matching (PSM) and Heckman two stage methods. Overall, our findings support the premises of agency theory and Uysal’s (2011) view that over-levered firms have a high tendency to pursue most value-enhancing acquisition deals due to the high pressure of holding high levels of debt.

Keywords: Over-levered firms, market reaction, long-term performance, operating synergy, long-term value, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Yousry and Elshandidy, Tamer, Effect of Leverage Deviation on Choices and Outcomes of Public Versus Non-Public Acquisitions (2021). International Journal of Finance & Economics, 26(3), 3436-3459, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Y Ahmed , T Elshandidy
The effect of bidder conservatism on M&A decisions: Text-based evidence from US 10-K filings
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 46 , p. 176 - 190 Posted: 2016
Y Ahmed , T Elshandidy
Why do over-deviated firms from target leverage undertake foreign acquisitions
International Business Review , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 327 Posted: 2018
G Alexandridis , K P Fuller , L Terhaar , N G Travlos
Deal size, acquisition premia and shareholder gains
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 20 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2013
G Amewu , P Alagidede
Do mergers and acquisitions announcements create value for acquirer shareholders in Africa
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 606 - 627 Posted: 2018
Load more
2 Citations
Pei Chu , Mohamed Elsayed , Yousry Ahmed
Do Women in the Boardroom Influence Foreign Acquisitions’ Premium and Outcomes? Evidence from China
International Journal of Finance & Economics, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 41
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rama Prasad Kanungo
What Incentivizes International Acquirers to Cross the Boundaries?
LRP-D-25-00010 · 45 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
2 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies