Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Networking (Guanxi) and Whistleblowing Intentions: Does CSR Ring the Bell?

Yang, L., and El Mahdy, D. (2022). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting 14 (2): 236-258.

23 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2022 Last revised: 31 Dec 2022

Ling Yang

New Jersey City University

Dina El Mahdy, Ph.D., CFE

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 13, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the mediating role of Chinese banking employees’ attitudes toward Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Specifically, it investigates the impact of individuals’ CSR attitudes on the relationship between social networking (guanxi) with their banks’ supervisors and their whistleblowing intentions. Using structural equation modeling with data collected from banking employees in Chinese financial organizations, the study finds that individual attitudes toward CSR affect employees’ whistleblowing intentions. Specifically, participants with stronger beliefs in ethics and social responsibility (the stakeholder view) are more likely to blow the whistle internally and, conversely, participants with weak beliefs in ethics and social responsibility (the stockholder view) prefer to report wrongdoing through the external channels. This study provides empirical evidence of the mediating mechanism that individual attitudes toward CSR have on the influence of guanxi on employees’ whistleblowing intentions.

Keywords: Guanxi, CSR Attitude, PRESOR, Whistleblowing

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Ling and El Mahdy, Dina, Social Networking (Guanxi) and Whistleblowing Intentions: Does CSR Ring the Bell? (March 13, 2022). Yang, L., and El Mahdy, D. (2022). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting 14 (2): 236-258. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
M J Abdolmohammadi , D R L Gabhart , M F Reeves
Ethical cognition of business students individually and in groups
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1717 - 1725 Posted: 1997
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
P Alleyne , R M Haniffa , H Mohammad
The Construction of a Whistle-Blowing Protocol for Audit Organizations: A Four-Stage Participatory Approach
International Journal of Auditing , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 86 Posted: 2016
P Alleyne , M Hudaib , R Pike
Towards a model of whistle-blowing intentions among external auditors
The British Accounting Review , volume 45 , p. 10 - 23 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies