Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory CSR Expenditure Regulation Induce Corporate Risk-Taking?

39 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2022 Last revised: 18 Jul 2022

Sandeep Rao

Dublin City University Business School

Partha P. Roy

University of Birmingham

Santosh Koirala

University of Birmingham, Birmingham Business School

Date Written: March 12, 2022

Abstract

Regulations that mandate firms to spend on CSR activities can influence such firms’ corporate strategies. In this paper, we look at how mandatory CSR expenditure laws impact corporate risk-taking. Using tenets of the resource-based allocation to balance the stakeholder-shareholder interests under the theoretical arguments of stakeholder saliency and political stakeholder theory, we show that mandatory CSR expenditure regulations induce higher corporate risk-taking among mandated CSR firms. We use the Indian mandatory CSR legislation under a difference-in-differences set-up to provide evidence of causality. Our findings are in congruence with the legal bonding created by regulatory interventions to stimulate optimal investment behaviour and risk-taking. We further show that the increase in corporate risk-taking is associated with improvement in investment and allocative efficiency, especially among small firms, firms with high ownership concentration, and those with low debt deployment.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; Risk-taking; ESG; Emerging market; CSR

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G38, G39, M14

Suggested Citation:

Rao, Sandeep and Roy, Partha P. and Koirala, Santosh, Does Mandatory CSR Expenditure Regulation Induce Corporate Risk-Taking? (March 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4056263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4056263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Does local religiosity matter for bank risk-taking
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 272 - 293 Posted: 2016
S K Agarwalla , J Jacob , J R Varma
Four Factor Model in Indian Equities Market
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2013-09
P Aghion , R Holden
Incomplete Contracts and the Theory of the Firm: What Have We Learned over the Past 25 Years
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 197 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,192
RANK
276,216
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies