Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Corporate Criminal Liability: Watching the ESG Space

J.S. Nelson, The Future of Corporate Criminal Liability: Watching the ESG Space

U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper

31 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2022 Last revised: 31 May 2022

J.S. Nelson

University of Pittsburgh - School of Law; Institute for Corruption Studies

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

The future of corporate criminal liability in the U.S. and around the world may be for failure to adequately act on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. In Europe and elsewhere, courts have found a fundamental right or the equivalent to protection from climate change. That right has been exercised in court cases against governments first, and it is moving into cases against private corporations.

This manuscript focuses within ESG issues on potential U.S. corporate criminal liability for inaction to prevent climate change. There has not been discussion of this topic elsewhere in the literature, and businesses need to look for these developments in the law.

U.S. courts are not likely to follow the international pattern of finding a fundamental right to protection against climate change, but they are more likely to find potential corporate criminal liability for misrepresentations that corporations make to investors in the gap between what corporations say and what they do on climate change issues. The first movements in this evolution are already happening.

Keywords: Corporate Criminal Liability, ESG, environmental, social, governance, climate change, corporate response, corporate promises, fraud, misrepresentation, prosecution, U.S. law, international law, fundamental rights, international movements

JEL Classification: K14, K19, K22, K33, K42, K2, K29, K4, Q54, Q56, Q58, Z1, Z13, Z18, Z19

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Josephine Sandler (J.S.), The Future of Corporate Criminal Liability: Watching the ESG Space (January 15, 2022). J.S. Nelson, The Future of Corporate Criminal Liability: Watching the ESG Space, U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
E D Pa
, volume 237 Posted: 2019
Id
244 (quoting Kokkonen v. Guardian Life Ins. Co. of Am , volume 375 Posted: 1994
Darlene Ricker
Lawyers Are Unleashing a Flurry of Lawsuits to Step Up the Fight Against Climate Change
ABA JOURNAL Posted: 2019-11-73
See Plaintiff's Compl , & City Mayor , V Council Of Balt , L C Bp P
Baltimore alleges that, despite knowing about the direct link between fossil fuel use and global warming for nearly fifty years, Defendants have engaged in a 'coordinated, multi-front effort' to conceal that knowledge; have tried to discredit "No, they for sure don't understand that. . . . I would even say many portfolio managers don't totally grasp that. Remember, they get paid , volume 452 Posted: 2018-07-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,411
RANK
101,005
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pittsburgh School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies