Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Reporting and Performance in Europe: A Scoping Review

Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 21 Nov 2022

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Anna Husmann

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing

Gaia Melloni

HEC Lausanne - Department of Accounting and Control

Date Written: November 18, 2022

Abstract

This paper provides a scoping review of European sustainability reporting studies. Previous sustainability studies do not offer a comprehensive discussion of features key to the European setting. Despite their important role in the European economy, research on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and financial institutions (i.e., insurers and banks) is limited. Furthermore, regions in southern and particularly eastern Europe, which are critical given regulators’ objectives for European Union-wide and global sustainability standards, are neglected. Finally, studies on non-financial effects of sustainability reporting are also limited, and only a few studies differentiate between stakeholder- and shareholder-oriented countries. This is needed for a holistic view on sustainability beyond financial performance. Based on material issues identified for the European context, our study provides a research agenda based on comprehensive and rigorous scientific evidence on the state of the art of sustainability research in Europe.

Keywords: CSR; ESG; European corporate reporting; scoping review; sustainability reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Husmann, Anna and Melloni, Gaia, Corporate Sustainability Reporting and Performance in Europe: A Scoping Review (November 18, 2022). Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
Acca
Mapping the sustainability reporting landscape, Lost in the right direction Posted: 2016
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility: a comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Load more
2 Citations
Philipp Aerni , Isa Cakir , Manfred Max Bergman
esg2go: A Method to Reduce Bias, Improve Coherence, and Increase Practicality of ESG Rating and Reporting
20 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 73
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maryna Gulenko , Saskia Kohlhase , Urska Kosi
Stakeholder Orientation in CSR Reporting of Non-Listed Banks
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 179 · 49 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2025 · Last revised: 3 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,755
RANK
39,211
2 Citations
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies