Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rhetoric of Activist Shareholder Stewards

New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2022

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 636/2022

King's College London Law School Research Paper

TLI Think! Paper Forthcoming

90 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022 Last revised: 23 Jun 2022

Dionysia Katelouzou

King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law; Transnational Law Institute; University of Cambridge; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

The corporate governance role of institutional investors has long been stressed and culminated in recent emphasis on shareholder stewardship, the new buzzword in corporate circles. Today, it is becoming widely accepted that institutional shareholders not only have rights that can be used actively to monitor and engage with investee companies to improve corporate governance and performance but also responsibilities to their clients, their beneficiaries, their investee companies and society to meet sustainability goals. This Article advances the thesis that the model of shareholder stewardship as originally aspired and expected by the first generation UK Stewardship Code (2010/12) is mainly about firm-specific, micro-level stewardship, rather than the market-level-style of stewardship associated with large passive asset managers, such as index funds, or the indirect-style of stewardship mostly exercised by asset owners. The main argument advanced in this Article is that while the ideal, firm-specific shareholder steward was never there in the first place, and already is largely vanishing, a special breed of activist investors with long-term horizons and dedicated, firm-specific monitoring capacities have the abilities and incentives to undertake the model of shareholder stewardship aspired by the first generation UK Stewardship Code. The question then arises as the extent to which these so called “activist shareholder stewards” can play the role of “stewardship arbitrageurs” or “stewardship intermediaries” and advance an “enlightened” form of firm-specific shareholder stewardship and accountability to serve “shared value”. To empirically address this question, this Article applies natural language processing (NLP) to explore the rhetoric of activist signatories to the first generation UK Stewardship Code, as revealed by their disclosure statements. The results show that there is a differentiated understanding of shareholder stewardship among the activist signatories to the UK Stewardship Code, but there is a small but potentially important breed of “enlightened” activist stewards that are ready to take on—and succeed at—micro-level shareholder stewardship. The findings have important implications for institutional investors and policymakers alike.



Keywords: stewardship, ESG, shareholder activism, institutional investors, natural language processing, structural topic modeling, empirical legal studies, activist hedge funds

Suggested Citation:

Katelouzou, Dionysia, The Rhetoric of Activist Shareholder Stewards (March 14, 2022). New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2022, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 636/2022, King's College London Law School Research Paper, TLI Think! Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
RANK
129,363
1 Citations
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies