Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Internal Audit’s Core Principles on Audit Outcomes

32 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Christopher Calvin

University of Dayton

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: March 15, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the effect that adherence to the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Core Principles has on mission-based internal audit outcomes. Using 505 survey responses from Chief Audit Executives in Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, we find that adherence to the Core Principles is associated with a greater scope of IA work, alignment with the strategic goals of the organization, usage of IA work product by a greater number of stakeholders, and a greater extent of IA work product usage by those stakeholders. We find that only half of the Core Principles are associated with at least one of these outcomes and that that no Core Principle is dominate in explaining all outcomes. Our results expand upon the fledgling academic literature on the Core Principles, add to the existing literature on internal audit quality, and support practitioner adoption of the Core Principles as a means of achieving internal audit effectiveness.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Core Principles, Chief Audit Executives, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Calvin, Christopher and Eulerich, Marc, The Effects of Internal Audit’s Core Principles on Audit Outcomes (March 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4058296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4058296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal auditprovided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , T J Presley
Control self-assessment and costs of compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley section 404
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 5 - 24 Posted: 2019
M Allegrini , G D Onza
Internal auditing and risk assessment in large Italian companies: an empirical survey
International Journal of Auditing , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 191 - 208 Posted: 2003
U L Anderson , M J Head , S Ramamoorti , K F Reding , C Riddle , M Salamasick , P Sobel
Internal auditing: Assurance & Advisory Services 4 th Edition Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
379,149
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies