Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU Taxonomy and the Syndicated Loan Market

44 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 20 Jan 2025

Zacharias Sautner

University of Zurich - Department of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jing Yu

The University of Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Rui Zhong

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Xiaoyan Zhou

University of Oxford, Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

The European Union (EU) Taxonomy on Sustainable Activities is one of the most far-reaching financial market regulations to combat climate change. Using international data from the syndicated loan market, we demonstrate that firms with larger EU Taxonomy-eligible revenue shares paid lower interest rates in the years before the formal introduction of the Taxonomy. Business revenue is Taxonomy-eligible if it originates from “transitional activities” that substantially contribute to climate change mitigation. A one-standard-deviation increase in firm revenue from transitional activities is associated with 5 basis points (bp) lower loan spreads (5% relative to the standard deviation). Effects are more pronounced for firms in countries with greater climate risk exposure and more stringent environmental policies, and when lending institutions have green preferences. The effects of transitional revenue do not simply reflect a borrower’s ESG ratings or broad exposure to climate risks and opportunities. Overall, our results indicate that financial markets already priced in some of the intended effects of the Taxonomy. 

Keywords: EU Taxonomy, Climate resilience, Syndicated loan spreads, Climate risk

JEL Classification: F34; G12; G32; M14; Q54

Suggested Citation:

Sautner, Zacharias and Yu, Jing and Zhong, Rui and Zhou, Xiaoyan, The EU Taxonomy and the Syndicated Loan Market (June 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4058961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4058961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
L Alessi , S Battiston
Two sides of the same coin: Green Taxonomy alignment versus transition risk in financial portfolios
Int Rev Financ Anal , volume 84 , issue 11 Posted: 2022
E ; Allman , S Bartram , K Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
J Financ Econ , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2021
A Bassen , O Kordsachia , K Lopatta , W Tan
Revenue alignment with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, forthcoming Posted: 2024
P Bolton , M Kacperczyk
Do investors care about carbon risk?
J Financ Econ , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 517 - 549 Posted: 2021
Load more
12 Citations
Alexander Bassen , Othar Kordsachia , Kerstin Lopatta , Weiqiang Tan
Revenue alignment with the EU taxonomy regulation in developed markets
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 170 , p. 107339 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Karolin Kirschenmann
The EU Taxonomy’s (Potential) Effects on the Banking Sector and Bank Lending to Firms
The Economists’ Voice , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 275 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Federica Tonnarello , Carlo Vermiglio , Carlo Migliardo , Valeria Naciti
The Impact of EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities on European Utilities' Performance
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 2848 Posted: 2025
Crossref
LAURA T. STARKS
Presidential Address: Sustainable Finance and ESG Issues—ValueversusValues
The Journal of Finance , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 1837 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,524
RANK
31,781
12 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies