Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Dynamic Financing Decisions Explain the Behavior of Dividend Payout Policies? An Empirical Study of Listed Manufacturing Pakistani Firms

Financial Internet Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 1, 2022

15 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022

Zahid Bashir

University of the Punjab (PU) - Hailey College of Commerce; University of Gujrat

Zulqurnain Zeeshan Rafique

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST)

Kashif Naseer Toor

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST)

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

The study investigates the factors that influence dividend payout policy in public manufacturing Pakistani companies throughout the timeframe 2010-20. Pooled OLS technique was used for regression purpose, as the majority of companies does not pay a dividend at all or regularly so all these firms or not paying observations were excluded from the final dataset. The study discovers that dividend payout in listed manufacturing Pakistani firms is significantly affected by “ratio of short-debt”, “ratio of long-debt”, “ratio of total-debt”, “life cycle ratio” and “cash ratio”. Similarly, “short term debt ratio”, “ratio of long-debt” and “life cycle ratio”, increase the dividend payout while “cash ratio”, decreases the dividend distribution ratio for publically traded manufacturing Pakistani companies. The policymakers/financial advisors and decision-makers in listed manufacturing Pakistani firms should take into consideration the factors like debt financing, life cycle ratio, and cash ratio for making their dividend policies.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Financing Decision, Debt Financing, Equity ratio.

JEL Classification: C1, C4, C8, G2, G3, L2, L6.

Suggested Citation:

Bashir, Zahid and Rafique, Zulqurnain Zeeshan and Toor, Kashif Naseer, How Do Dynamic Financing Decisions Explain the Behavior of Dividend Payout Policies? An Empirical Study of Listed Manufacturing Pakistani Firms (January 31, 2022). Financial Internet Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4058057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
U Abbas , M I Farooq , A R Kashif , S Hassan , S M P Scholar
Effect Of Dividend Paying Behavior And Board Size And Board Composition On Firm's Performance: Evidence From Pakistan
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2021
J F Abreu , M A Gulamhussen
Dividend Payouts: Evidence from US Bank Holding Companies in the Context of the Financial Crisis
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 22 , p. 54 - 65 Posted: 2013
H Ahmad , A Javid
The Ownership Structure and Dividend Payout Policy in Pakistan (Evidence from Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index)
International Journal of Business Management and Economic Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 69 Posted: 2010
S Akhtar
Dividend Payout Determinants for Australian Multinational and Domestic Corporations
Accounting & Finance , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 55 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
333
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies