Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Liquidity and Accruals-based Earnings Management: The Three Views

50 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2022

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Zhuo (June) Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2022

Abstract

The literature offers three views on the effect of stock liquidity on accruals-based earnings management. According to the takeover threat view, stock liquidity makes a firm prone to hostile takeovers and thereby spurs its managers to use accruals-based earnings management to move stock price upward and then avoid becoming a takeover target; according to the governance view, stock liquidity amplifies the deterring effect of blockholder intervention and exit on accruals-based earnings management and thereby dampens accruals-based earnings management; according to the information efficiency view, stock liquidity dampens accruals-based earnings management by making it difficult for managers to move stock price using accruals-based earnings management and by making stock price revealing about the value-destroying consequence of accruals-based earnings management. Consistent with the latter two views and inconsistent with the first view, we find that stock liquidity dampens accruals-based earnings management. Importantly, we find support for the mechanisms underlying the information efficiency view and find no support for the mechanisms suggested for the governance view.

Keywords: Stock liquidity; Efficiency; Takeover threat; Blockholder intervention and exit

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Jing and Cheng, Zhuo (June), Stock Liquidity and Accruals-based Earnings Management: The Three Views (March 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4058294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4058294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
A Bhide
The hidden costs of stock market liquidity
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 34 , p. 31 - 51 Posted: 1993
Y Chen , S G Rhee , M Veeraraghavan , L Zolotoy
Stock liquidity and managerial short-termism
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 60 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2015
T Chordia , R Roll , A Subrahmanyam
Liquidity and market efficiency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 87 , p. 249 - 268 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
514,660
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies