Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Social Media Inform Corporate Decisions? Evidence from Merger Withdrawals

Forthcoming at the Journal of Finance

100 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2022 Last revised: 22 May 2025

J. Anthony Cookson

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Marina Niessner

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Finance

Christoph Schiller

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 9, 2023

Abstract

This paper studies whether social media sentiment predicts merger withdrawals. We find that a standard deviation increase in social media sentiment after a merger announcement is associated with a 0.64 percentage points lower probability of withdrawal (16.6% of the average). This effect is unexplained by abnormal price reactions, traditional news, and analyst recommendations. Consistent with manager learning, the informativeness of social media strengthens after firms start
corporate Twitter accounts. The informativeness is driven by longer acquisition related
tweets by fundamental investors, rather than memes and price trend tweets. These findings suggest that social media signals can be important for corporate decisions.

Keywords: Social Media, Social Finance, FinTech, Capital Allocation, M&A

JEL Classification: F30, F36, G38, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Cookson, J. Anthony and Niessner, Marina and Schiller, Christoph, Can Social Media Inform Corporate Decisions? Evidence from Merger Withdrawals (January 9, 2023). Forthcoming at the Journal of Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4059633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4059633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Learning from repetitive acquisitions: Evidence from the time between deals
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 2013
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
J S Ang , C Hsu , D Tang , C Wu
The role of social media in corporate governance
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? The information content of internet stock message boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,777
RANK
33,073
12 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies