Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholders shan't save society

Barnett, Michael L. 2022. Stakeholders shan't save society. Organization Studies (forthcoming)

6 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Michael L. Barnett

Rutgers Business School, Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

In managing for stakeholders, firms prove no better at alleviating the many worsening problems that the dogged pursuit of shareholder value maximization exacerbated. Maybe it offers more scenic views along the way, but the stakeholder path leads to the same destination as the shareholder path. Even for those earnestly seeking to advance collective welfare, market structures and incentives mitigate against stakeholder-driven solutions to wicked social problems. We need government to force the self-control that we know we need but that stakeholder suasion cannot drive us to provide.

Keywords: stakeholder management, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Barnett, Michael L., Stakeholders shan't save society (March 14, 2022). Barnett, Michael L. 2022. Stakeholders shan't save society. Organization Studies (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4059305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Michael L Barnett
Limits to stakeholder influence: Why the business case won't save the world Posted: 2018
Michael L Barnett , Irene Henriques , Brian W Husted
Beyond good intentions: Designing CSR initiatives for greater social impact
Journal of Management , volume 46 , p. 937 - 964 Posted: 2020
Timothy M Devinney , Auger , Pat , Giana M Eckhardt
The myth of the ethical consumer Posted: 2010
R Freeman , Edward ; Pitman , Renate E Meyer , Stephan Leixnering , Jeroen Veldman
The Corporation: Rethinking the iconic form of business organization
Research in the Sociology of Organizations , volume 78 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
588,270
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies