Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance in Russian SOEs: Real or surreal?

Asian Journal of Comparative Law (forthcoming)

44 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Roza Nurgozhayeva

Nazarbayev University; National University of Singapore Faculty of Law; Cornell Law School

Date Written: November 25, 2021

Abstract

The narrative that defines privatisation, corporatization, and the separation of ownership and regulatory functions as the key prerequisites for a successful SOE governance structure represents the literature’s leading approach. This approach has been embedded in national laws and policies across many countries. Nonetheless, some legal scholars have scrutinized and questioned this single-minded perspective, emphasizing the impact of existing institutional conditions and calling for an alternative understanding of corporate governance dynamics in different SOEs. Notwithstanding a vigorous debate on SOEs, it almost exclusively focuses on China, while Russia, being another large state-driven economy, has been missing. This Article fills this gap and offers a comparative and critical perspective on the state ownership system in Russia. The analysis of Russian SOEs reveals classic governance and incentive problems attributable to state ownership. However, the question is how despite close affiliation to the State and high transaction costs caused by state interference, Russian SOEs have gained a substantial international market presence. This article attempts to answer this paradox

Keywords: corporate governance, state-owned enterprises, Russia, ownership

JEL Classification: K2

Suggested Citation:

Nurgozhayeva, Roza, Corporate governance in Russian SOEs: Real or surreal? (November 25, 2021). Asian Journal of Comparative Law (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4059258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E G See , J Curtis , Wentong Milhaupt , Zheng , Benjamin L Liebman , Curtis J Milhaupt
Reforming China's State-Owned Enterprises: Institutions, Not Ownership
Regulating the Visible Hand?: The Institutional Implications of Chinese State Capitalism , p. 175 - 201 Posted: 2015
Lei Zheng , Benjamin L Liebman , Curtis J Milhaupt , Benjamin L Liebman , Curtis J Milhaupt
SOEs and State Governance: How State-owned Enterprises Influence China's Legal System
Regulating the Visible Hand? The Institutional Implications of Chinese State Capitalism Posted: 2015
For the traditional understanding of a corporate entity see Robert W. Hamilton, 'Corporate Entity
Tex. L. Rev Posted: 1970
Gregory A Mark
The personification of the business corporation in American law' (1987) 54 The University of Chicago Law Review 1441
The nature of the firm: origins, evolution, and development Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies