Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Blockades to PCAOB Inspections Suggest Lower Audit Quality? The Case of Chinese Companies Listed in the U.S.

56 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2022 Last revised: 22 Apr 2022

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Yanru Yang

Bentley University

Zhongze Li

Nanjing Audit University

Date Written: March 11, 2022

Abstract

Recently, the SEC adopted rules for the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act which bars trading of securities of companies whose auditors are not inspected by the PCAOB. Currently, the PCAOB is unable to inspect the audit work papers of Chinese audit firms that audit U.S.-listed Chinese companies with a total market capitalization of about $2 trillion as of May 2021. Using a sample of 439 pairs of Chinese and U.S. companies matched on industry, company size, and year, we do not observe a significant difference across multiple audit quality proxies. Further, the proportion of companies audited by the Big 4 auditors is higher for the U.S.-listed Chinese companies than their U.S. counterparts. We also find that earnings informativeness is marginally higher for U.S.-listed Chinese companies. Overall, our findings suggest that the lack of inspection by the PCAOB does not result in lower audit quality. Our finding of insignificant differences in audit quality between U.S.-listed Chinese companies and U.S. companies could be due to greater audit efforts by Chinese auditors to bridge the perception gap in audit quality resulting from the lack of inspections by the PCAOB.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections; China; earnings quality; audit quality; ERC

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Yang, Yanru and Li, Zhongze, Do Blockades to PCAOB Inspections Suggest Lower Audit Quality? The Case of Chinese Companies Listed in the U.S. (March 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4059296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4059296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
261,368
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies