Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Risk Management and Financing Constraints：Evidence from China's A-Share Non-Financial Listed Enterprises

46 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Zhengwen Wang

Wuhan University

Yuwan Dan

Wuhan University

Weizheng Li

Wuhan University

Abstract

With the development of the economy, risk management theory is constantly improving. Enterprise risk management (ERM) has been effective in internal auditing, financial management, and budget control. This paper empirically tests how the implementation of ERM by Chinese firms affects firms' financing constraints, using a treatment effects model based on data from Chinese A-share non-financial listed firms from 2006 to 2018. The study finds that the implementation of ERM significantly alleviates corporate financing constraints in general. Additionally, different ERM implementation strategies show differences in the impact on corporate financing. By examining the mechanism of the impact on financing constraints, this paper finds that implementing ERM improves the quality of firms' information disclosure and reduces systemic risk, thereby alleviating firms' financing constraints. This paper provides empirical evidence from a transitional economic context for theories related to ERM and new solutions for firms to alleviate financing constraints.

Keywords: enterprise risk management, corporate financing, financing constraints, transitional economic context

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Zhengwen and Dan, Yuwan and Li, Weizheng, Enterprise Risk Management and Financing Constraints：Evidence from China's A-Share Non-Financial Listed Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4059041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4059041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
K Manova , S J Wei , Z W Zhang
Firm Exports and Multinational Activity under Credit Constraints , volume 97 , p. 574 - 588 Posted: 2015
M Muûls
Exporters, importers and credit constraints
Journal of International Economics , volume 95 , issue 2 , p. 333 - 343 Posted: 2015
C Leuz , R E Verrecchia
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 91 - 124 Posted: 2000
A Goss , G S Roberts
The impact of corporate social responsibility on the cost of bank loans
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 1794 - 1810 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
RANK
191,550
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies