Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Deficits and Corporate Tax Avoidance

46 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Mary Cowx

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Felipe Bastos G. Silva

Cornerstone Research, Inc. - Boston Office

Kelvin Yeung

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 4, 2023

Abstract

We investigate how government deficits affect corporate-tax avoidance. We find that deficits are positively associated with corporate-tax avoidance, consistent with a deterioration in the government’s finances leading to expectations of weaker tax enforcement or future tax increases. To disentangle the effect of deficits from other macroeconomic conditions, we perform an instrumental variables estimation using military-spending data and two event studies exploiting the Carter-Reagan military buildup and the end of the Cold War. Altogether, our results underscore an important unintended consequence of increasing government deficits, with important implications for corporate-tax collection and fiscal stability.

Keywords: Government Deficits; Tax Avoidance; Tax Enforcement; Political Economy

JEL Classification: H20, H26, H62

Suggested Citation:

Cowx, Mary and Silva, Felipe Bastos G. and Yeung, Kelvin, Government Deficits and Corporate Tax Avoidance (September 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4060416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4060416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Acconcia , G Corsetti , S Simonelli
Mafia and Public Spending: Evidence on the Fiscal Multiplier From a Quasi-Experiment
American Economic Review , volume 104 , issue 7 , p. 2185 - 2209 Posted: 2014
M Adelino , I Cunha , M A Ferreira
The Economic Effects of Public Financing: Evidence from Municipal Bond Ratings Recalibration. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
A Alesina , G Tabellini
A Positive Theory of Fiscal Deficits and Government Debt
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 414 Posted: 1990
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 23 - 338 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
725
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,323
RANK
58,911
3 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies