Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting Standards and Securities Litigation

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of fair value standards on firms’ litigation risk. The discretion required by fair value allows plaintiffs to “second guess” managers’ judgments, potentially increasing litigation risk. Alternatively, the complexity of fair value may decrease litigation risk if it’s more difficult to demonstrate scienter. Our evidence suggests firms that rely more on fair value standards are relatively less likely to be sued. We find no evidence of a relation between fair value and the risk of misstatements or fraud, but do find evidence of a slight increase in firms’ litigation risk via an increase in volatility. However, the primary effect of fair value standards in reducing litigation risk dominates the volatility effect. Finally, we find average litigation rates increase after the passage of new standards, but less so for fair value standards. On balance, our evidence suggests fair value is a relatively low litigation risk area in GAAP.

Keywords: Fair Value Standards, Securities Litigation

JEL Classification: M41, G3, K4

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib and Donelson, Dain C. and McInnis, John M. and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean, Fair Value Accounting Standards and Securities Litigation (May 31, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4060405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4060405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J C Alexander
Do the merits matter: A study of settlements in securities class actions
Stan. L. Rev , volume 43 Posted: 1990
M Ashraf , P G Donelson , D C Ege , M
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Does Automation Improve Financial Reporting? Evidence from Internal Controls. Review of Accounting Studies. Forthcoming , volume 58 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on auditing high-uncertainty fair value estimates
Audit J. Pract. Theor , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
B E Christensen , S M Glover , D A Wood
Extreme estimation uncertainty in fair value estimates: Implications for audit assurance
Audit J. Pract. Theor , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 146 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
380
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,444
RANK
178,651
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies