Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Oil Price Uncertainty Affect Corporate Innovation?

Energy Economics, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 3 Feb 2023

Md Ruhul Amin

Valdosta State University

Xinyu Wang

Valdosta State University

Elvan Aktas

Valdosta State University

Date Written: March 19, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the relation between oil price uncertainty (OPU) and corporate innovation productivity. Using firm-level innovation data of US firms, we find that OPU is negatively associated with future innovation outcomes, proxied by the number of patents and subsequent citations, and the dollar value of innovation. However, this negative relation is more pronounced for non-green innovation than for green innovation and predominantly driven by oil supply shocks. Our supply-side explanation suggests that since oil supply shocks induce uncertainty about future economic growth opportunities and cost of operation, firms tend to decrease their investment in innovation activities. This negative relation is pronounced more in manufacturing firms and firms located in non-oil-producing states, and the pre-financial crisis period. Further analysis suggests that increases in the cost of external financing and cash holdings appear to be the underlying mechanisms through which OPU impedes firm innovation. The results survive from several model specifications, alternative variable definitions, and controlling additional firm and macroeconomic factors. Overall, OPU seems to have an important implication in shaping firms’ investment in innovation. Several implications are discussed.

Keywords: OPU, innovation, cash flow, cost of production, cost of debt, cash holdings, GARCH

JEL Classification: O31, Q43

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Md Ruhul and Wang, Xinyu and Aktas, Elvan, Does Oil Price Uncertainty Affect Corporate Innovation? (March 19, 2022). Energy Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4061907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4061907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
H J A Ahmed , I M Wadud
Role of oil price shocks on macroeconomic activities: An SVAR approach to the Malaysian economy and monetary responses
Energy Policy , volume 39 , issue 12 , p. 8062 - 8069 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
352,349
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies