Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Determining Financial Reporting Quality: An Empirical Study on the Publicly Listed Food and Allied Companies of Bangladesh

International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics

45 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Abdullah Al Masud

University of Dhaka

Date Written: March 20, 2022

Abstract

In an aim to assess financial reporting quality and its determining factors, this empirical research examined a randomly selected sample from food and allied sector of the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE), Bangladesh. As a rapidly growing industry of Bangladesh, the food and allied sector of DSE grabs a significant portion of market capitalization and attentions from security analysts. To make valuable decisions in relevant domains, the financial reporting quality of this sector matters for policymakers, investors and regulators and for corporate managers also. However, the financial reporting quality (FRQ) has been measured using the popular model developed by Dechow, Sloan and Sweeney, also known as Modified Jones Model (1995). A documentary analysis of the available audited financial statements and annual reports of randomly selected sample companies for six consecutive years (2015 to 2020) has been used as the primary data sources. Popular statistical tools like correlation studies, regression analyses etc. have been applied to find the statistical significance of the explanatory variables of this research. Fourteen factors have been examined for their effects on the quality of financial reports using a classical linear regression model. This research finds firm size, firm age, foreign ownership and leverage positively significantly determine financial reporting quality while the growth and board independence negatively significantly influential. The findings recommend managers to emphasize their attention on the significant factors to improve their financial reporting quality. Security analysts shall evaluate firms' value based on the factors found significant in determining the quality of financial reports.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Quality (FRQ), Modified Jones Model (1995), Firm-specific characteristics, Performance Indicators, Corporate Governance Mechanisms, Discretionary Accruals

Suggested Citation:

Masud, Abdullah Al, Factors Determining Financial Reporting Quality: An Empirical Study on the Publicly Listed Food and Allied Companies of Bangladesh (March 20, 2022). International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4062129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
The Journal of Law & Economics , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
H Ahmed , M Azim
Earnings management behavior: A study on the cement industry of Bangladesh
International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics , p. 265 - 276 Posted: 2015
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The impact of non-financial company characteristics on mandatory disclosure compliance in developing countries: the case of Bangladesh
The International Journal of accounting , p. 62 - 77 Posted: 2004
J Al-Ajmi
Audit firm, corporate governance, and audit quality: Evidence from Bahrain
Advances in Accounting , p. 64 - 74 Posted: 2009
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,110
RANK
138,996
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies