Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Practices in the Digital Era: Maximizing the Benefit-to-Cost Ratio of Information Technology

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-18

Directors and Boards Magazine, forthcoming

23 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2022

Leo E. Strine, Jr.

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School

Laura Mcintosh

Independent

Date Written: March 17, 2022

Abstract

Information technology can improve the quality of the deliberative processes of corporate boards of directors. Yet, if used imprudently, these technologies can reduce the integrity of corporate decisionmaking and increase business, legal, and reputational risk.

Regrettably, rather than evolving to keep pace with technological developments, corporate governance practices often involve an admixture of obsolete past approaches and ad hoc new ones, a combination that underutilizes the benefits of technology and increases its potential risks. In this article, we look in particular at two types of board-level practices that should evolve to take into account technological developments:

i) board information policies involving (a) the transmission to and use of information by the board of directors and (b) the documentation of action taken by the board and board committees; and

ii) board meeting practices in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ubiquitous use of web conferencing platforms to conduct director meetings remotely, rather than in person.

These topics are related, because virtual meetings put pressure on board information policies. Virtual meetings require directors and managers to be self-disciplined so that the efficiency advantages that come with virtual meetings are not undermined by inattention, unproductive online interaction, and insufficient in-person time for the board and key managers to meet and develop the chemistry and expectations for information flow vital to successful governance.

This article is not theoretical, but practical. After situating board practice in its historical context, we make recommendations about affirmative steps — “do’s” — that companies could take to improve their board information policies, positive steps that imply actions to avoid — “don’ts”— which we set forth in correlative footnotes. From there, we recommend “do’s” and “don’ts” for board organizational, calendaring, and meeting practices, an understudied area. We then explain how our recommendations facilitate informed, efficient, and credibly-documented decisionmaking.


Keywords: Corporate governance, boards, directors, digital information technology, recordkeeping, information & document retention, risk management, liability, fiduciary duty, committees, meetings

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Strine, Jr., Leo E. and Mcintosh, Laura, Board Practices in the Digital Era: Maximizing the Benefit-to-Cost Ratio of Information Technology (March 17, 2022). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-18, Directors and Boards Magazine, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4063210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,177
RANK
247,189
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies