Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry 4.0-Enabled ESG Reporting: A Case from a Chinese Energy Company

Forthcoming in Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting

30 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2022 Last revised: 7 Oct 2022

Wenjun Yu

Shengang Securities Co., Ltd.

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Jun Dai

Michigan Technological University

Date Written: March 21, 2022

Abstract

Accelerating climate change, deforestation, and pollution have all turned a global spotlight on corporate sustainability. Many countries have issued standards on Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) reporting, especially from heavily polluting companies. ESG disclosure has become a main channel for investors, the public, and other external stakeholders to understand companies’ impact on the environment. However, the current methods of collecting and processing environmental information are insufficient and infrequent, impairing stakeholders’ decision-making. Moreover, the complexity and diversity of environmental measures can inhibit information reliability, accuracy, and objectivity. We propose the use of Industry 4.0 technologies to improve existing ESG reporting processes, and demonstrate a novel environmental reporting system that could allow a Chinese energy company to collect and report environmental information in real time, enhancing the completeness, reliability, and efficiency of their environmental disclosure.

Keywords: ESG, Environmental reporting, environmental accounting, environmental disclosure, Industry 4.0, IoT

JEL Classification: M41, M42, O14

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Wenjun and Gu, Yu and Dai, Jun, Industry 4.0-Enabled ESG Reporting: A Case from a Chinese Energy Company (March 21, 2022). Forthcoming in Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4063071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4063071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
C A Adams , D Owen , M F Alsayegh , R Abdul Rahman , S Homayoun , A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim , Pearson , C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation'of sustainability reporting
Accountability, social responsibility and sustainability: Accounting for society and the environment , volume 12 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2014
P Baier , M Berninger , F Kiesel
Environmental, social and governance reporting in annual reports: A textual analysis. Financial Markets
Institutions & Instruments , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 93 - 118 Posted: 2020
J Bebbington , R Gray , I Benbasat , D K Goldstein , M Mead
The case research strategy in studies of information systems
Corporate accountability and the physical environment: Social responsibility and accounting beyond profit. Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 2 , p. 369 - 386 Posted: 1987
F G Brundu , E Patti , A Osello , M Del Giudice , N Rapetti , A Krylovskiy , . . Acquaviva , A Burritt , R Christ , K Burritt , R L Schaltegger , S Zvezdov , D
Adoption of CSR and sustainability reporting standards: Economic analysis and review
Asian Journal of Sustainability and Social Responsibility , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 80 - 98 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
607
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,949
RANK
101,650
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies