Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profitability Analysis

62 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: March 23, 2022

Abstract

This study describes a comprehensive profitability analysis that introduces several novel ratios and decompositions. Key innovations relate to the separation and analysis of activities other than operating and financing, and, most importantly, to the decomposition of operating profitability. Three drivers of operating profitability are analyzed: profit margin, asset turnover, and a funding ratio that measures the proportion of operating assets funded by capital. The empirical analysis demonstrates the informativeness of the various decompositions as well as the effectiveness of the methodology used for estimating transitory income and other components of the reformulated financial statements.

Keywords: Profitability, financial statement analysis, DuPont analysis, earnings persistence, special items, recurring earnings, core earnings, earnings quality, free cash flow, forecasting, valuation

JEL Classification: G12, G17, G31, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nissim, Doron, Profitability Analysis (March 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4064824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4064824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
E Amir , I Kama , J Livnat
Conditional versus unconditional persistence of RNOA components: implications for valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 302 - 327 Posted: 2011
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general and administrative costs sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
M Anderson , S Hyun , V Muslu , D Yu
Earnings prediction with DuPont components and calibration by life cycle
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,118
RANK
6,390
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies