Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Personal Income Taxes Affect Corporate Tax-motivated Profit Shifting?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 80

Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics

89 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2022 Last revised: 26 Nov 2024

Antonio De Vito

Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna

Lisa Hillmann

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Robert Vossebürger

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: April 16, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the role of personal income taxes on multinationals’ corporate tax-induced profit shifting. As mandated in most OECD countries, firms need economic substance in low corporate-tax countries to justify profit shifting to these countries. Because high personal income taxes raise labor costs and thus the cost of providing economic substance, we predict that personal income taxes mute profit shifting. Using data from 26 European countries, we find that personal income taxes substantially reduce profit shifting to low corporate-tax jurisdictions, particularly when parent countries impose strict substance requirements. We also find that firms use employees to justify economic substance and that the effect of the personal income tax is related to its incidence falling partly on firms. Our results show important interactions between personal and corporate income taxes that reduce multinationals’ profit-shifting activities when substance requirements are implemented as in the European Union or many OECD countries. 

Keywords: Personal income taxes, profit shifting, corporate income taxes, anti-tax avoidance rules

JEL Classification: F23, G32, H21, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

De Vito, Antonio and Hillmann, Lisa and Jacob, Martin and Vossebürger, Robert, Do Personal Income Taxes Affect Corporate Tax-motivated Profit Shifting? (April 16, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 80, Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4064766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4064766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
RANK
212,316
3 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies