Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cheap Stock Options: Antecedents and Outcomes

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2022/35/ACC

63 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 27 Jun 2025

Brad A. Badertscher

University of Notre Dame

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School

Sharon P. Katz

INSEAD

Jeremy Michels

Purdue University

Date Written: June 24, 2025

Abstract

We examine the prevalence, determinants, and consequences of cheap stock. Practitioners have adopted the label “cheap stock” to refer to equity-based compensation granted before a firm’s IPO that uses a share price below the IPO price. Cheap stock grants have drawn regulators’ attention, with the SEC frequently commenting on issues related to cheap stock when reviewing firms’ IPO registration statements. We find that the average firm’s IPO price is more than five times the exercise price of options issued in the fiscal year before the IPO. This divergence between the IPO price and the exercise price of recently granted options is greater for firms that grant more options, have larger public offerings, and have venture capital backing. Finally, cheap stock options are associated with higher CEO compensation, lower post-IPO investment, lower post-IPO stock returns, and greater IPO underpricing. Collectively, our results illustrate the extent of cheap stock option grants and how these grants influence firms’ post-IPO behavior. 

Keywords: Initial public offering, IPO, cheap stock, stock options, earnings management, executive compensation, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G14, G24, M12, M13, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Badertscher, Brad A. and jorgensen, bjorn and Katz, Sharon P. and Michels, Jeremy, Cheap Stock Options: Antecedents and Outcomes (June 24, 2025). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2022/35/ACC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4064057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4064057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R K Aggarwal , L Krigman , K L Womack
Strategic IPO underpricing, information momentum, and lockup expiration selling
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 137 Posted: 2002
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
S Benninga , M Helmantel , O Sarig
The timing of initial public offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 132 Posted: 2005
S Bernstein
Does Going Public Affect Innovation?
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 4 , p. 1365 - 1403 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
321,382
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies