Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate CSR Disclosures and Regulatory Mandates: The Role of Investors’ Perceptions of Greenwashing

Behavioral Research in Accounting, 2024[10.2308/BRIA-2023-050]

Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Feb 2025

Kirsten Fanning

DePaul University

Richard C. Hatfield

University of Alabama

Chez Sealy

University of Alabama

Date Written: November 20, 2024

Abstract

As stakeholders question the reliability of corporate CSR information, regulators are now considering corporate CSR disclosure mandates. Using an experiment, we examine how investors’ perceptions of greenwashing and investment judgments are impacted by voluntary versus mandatory disclosure of identical CSR outcomes, relative to different types of CSR goals. Although high quantitative CSR goals are encouraged to incent more CSR activity, we first document that investors perceive more greenwashing and are less willing to invest in a company that underperforms a higher quantitative goal compared to a company that outperforms a lower quantitative goal or issues a qualitative goal, holding CSR performance constant. Next, we identify an important consequence of mandating CSR reporting requirements. Mandates further exacerbate investors’ greenwashing perceptions and magnify the positive and negative effects of quantitative CSR goals on investment willingness. Our findings have important implications for investors, managers, and regulators currently considering changes to CSR disclosure requirements.

Keywords: Investor judgment, greenwashing, attribution theory, CSR regulation, CSR goals

Suggested Citation:

Fanning, Kirsten and Hatfield, Richard C. and Sealy, Chezham, Corporate CSR Disclosures and Regulatory Mandates: The Role of Investors’ Perceptions of Greenwashing (November 20, 2024). Behavioral Research in Accounting, 2024[10.2308/BRIA-2023-050], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065045
 Not Available for Download
83 References
Apple
Comment Letter on Climate Change Disclosures
Securities and Exchange Commission Posted: 2021
H S Asay , J Hales
Disclaiming the Future: Investigating the Impact of Cautionary Disclaimers on Investor Judgments Before and After Experiencing Economic Loss
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 81 - 99 Posted: 2018
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
K L Becker-Olsen , B A Cudmore , R P Hill
The impact of perceived corporate social responsibility on consumer behavior
Journal of Business Research , volume 59 , p. 46 - 53 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies