Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Enlightened Shareholder Value Add Value?

The Business Lawyer, Volume 77, 2022, pp. 731-754
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1077
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-5


European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 643/2022

32 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Kobi Kastiel

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; Harvard Law School, Program on Corporate Governance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Roberto Tallarita

Harvard Law School

Date Written: April 6, 2022

Abstract

Unlike shareholder value maximization (SV), which merely calls on corporate leaders to maximize shareholder value, enlightened shareholder value (ESV) combines this prescription with guidance to consider stakeholder interests in the pursuit of long-term shareholder value maximization. ESV is being increasingly embraced by many actors: it was adopted by the U.K. Companies Act, is being considered for inclusion in the Restatement of Corporate Governance Law, and is broadly supported by both corporate leaders and institutional investors. This article examines whether replacing SV with ESV can be expected to benefit stakeholders or society.

We begin by arguing that the appeal of ESV and the enthusiasm for it among supporters is grounded in a misperception about how frequent "win-win situations" are. In reality, corporate leaders often face significant trade-offs between shareholder and stakeholder interests, and such situations are exactly those for which the specification of corporate purpose is important.

Furthermore, we explain that, under certain standard assumptions, SV and ESV are always operationally equivalent and prescribe exactly the same corporate choices. We then relax these assumptions and consider arguments that using ESV is beneficial in order to (i) counter the tendency of corporate leaders to be excessively focused on short-term effects, (ii) educate corporate leaders to give appropriate weight to stakeholder effects, (iii) provide cover to corporate leaders who wish to serve stakeholders, and/or (iv) protect capitalism from a backlash and deflect pressures to adopt stakeholder-protecting regulation. We show that each of these arguments is flawed.

We conclude that, at best, replacing SV with ESV would create neither value nor harm. However, to the extent that ESV would give the false impression that corporate leaders can be relied on to protect stakeholders, the switch from SV to ESV would be detrimental for stakeholders and could impede or delay reforms that could truly protect them.

This paper is part of a larger research project of the Harvard Law School Corporate Governance on stakeholder capitalism and stakeholderism. Other parts of this research project include The Illusory Promise of Stakeholder Governance by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, Will Corporations Deliver Value to All Stakeholders? by by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita, For Whom Corporate Leaders Bargain by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, Stakeholder Capitalism in the Time of COVID by Lucian A. Bebchuk, Kobi Kastiel, and Roberto Tallarita, and The Perils and Questionable Promise of ESG-Based Compensation by Lucian A. Bebchuk and Roberto Tallarita.

Keywords: Corporate purpose, corporate social responsibility, stakeholders, stakeholder governance, stakeholder capitalism, stakeholderism, corporate constituencies, enlightened shareholder value, corporate governance, short-termism

JEL Classification: D21, G32, G34, G38, K2

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Kastiel, Kobi and Tallarita, Roberto, Does Enlightened Shareholder Value Add Value? (April 6, 2022). The Business Lawyer, Volume 77, 2022, pp. 731-754
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1077
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-5
, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 643/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
General Motors Company Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines
GEN. MOTORS CO , volume 2 Posted: 2017-08-08
Walmart Inc , Corporate Governance , Walmart Guidelines , Inc
Davos Manifesto Posted: 2020-02-06
Milton Cheng , Beatriz Pessoa De Araujo , Julia Hayhoe
Questions Directors Need to Ask in the Age of Stakeholder Capitalism
WORLD ECON. F Posted: 2020-01-08
Klaus Schwab , Peter Vanham
What Is Stakeholder Capitalism? Posted: 2021-01-22
Load more
16 Citations
B. C. Krushik Gowda
Big Data in Finance: Transforming the Financial Landscape
, volume 169 , p. 311 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Rutger Claassen
Corporate Purpose and Democratic Theory: A Governance Trilemma
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2025
Crossref
Tekla Papp , János Dúl
Sustainable finance: The relating actual Hungarian legislation in EU frame
Zbornik radova Pravnog fakulteta, Novi Sad , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1145 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Guido Ferrarini
The Cambridge Handbook of EU Sustainable Finance
, p. 51 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,831
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,813
RANK
6,542
16 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies