Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandated Environmental Liability Recognition and the Voluntary Disclosure of ESG Information

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2022/38/ACC

54 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 9 Sep 2022

Daniel A. Bens

University of New Hampshire, Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics, Students

Cai Chen

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Peter R. Joos

INSEAD

Date Written: March 24, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether and how the recognition of a mandatory on-balance-sheet environmental liability, Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO), i.e., environmental clean-up costs of normal operations, creates a positive spillover to the firm’s voluntary ESG-related disclosures. We hypothesize that when firms are compelled to recognize larger AROs that the effort required for a more accurate estimate will spill over into more complete voluntary disclosure of a broad range of ESG outcomes. Empirical evidence supports this hypothesis. In a sample of environmentally sensitive industries, we find that firms with larger AROs disclose more information about their ESG activities, including the subset of environmentally focused disclosures. We also find that firms with a downward bias in their ARO estimates provide fewer voluntary ESG disclosures. We then examine a series of increases in the ARO liability induced by regulatory mandates, and find that following such increases there are upticks in ESG voluntary disclosure. Finally, we also document predictable cross-sectional variation in the relation as a function of plausible mechanism variables. Our evidence suggests that accounting resources used to estimate mandatory ARO liabilities induce spillovers into more complete voluntary ESG disclosures.

Keywords: Asset Retirement Obligations, AROs, Voluntary Disclosure, ESG, Environmental Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M48, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Bens, Daniel A. and Chen, Cai and Joos, Peter R., Mandated Environmental Liability Recognition and the Voluntary Disclosure of ESG Information (March 24, 2022). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2022/38/ACC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Financial Reporting and Supplemental Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure as Complements: A Test of the Confirmation Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 36 - 166 Posted: 2012
M Barth , M Mcnichols , G P Wilson
Factors Influencing Firms' Disclosures about Environmental Liabilities
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , p. 35 - 64 Posted: 1997
S Bhojraj , C Lee , D Oler
What's My Line? A Comparison of Industry Classification Schemes for Capital Market Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,961
RANK
119,984
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies