Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One-Share-One-Vote and Dual-Class Shares in the Laboratory

40 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

Te Bao

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Economics

Edward Halim

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Yohanes E. Riyanto

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Economics

Date Written: March 7, 2022

Abstract

We test the seminal Grossman and Hart (1988) model on the optimality of the one-share-one-vote share structure against the dual-class share structure in a laboratory experiment. Our result shows qualitative support to their theoretical prediction asserting that the more efficient contender of control (incumbent or raider) is more likely to win the takeover contest under one-share-one-vote than under dual-class shares. It is interesting to note that contenders generally submit tender-offer prices higher than their maximum willingness to pay predicted by theory in all our treatments. However, the price deviation from the fundamental value is smaller under one-share-one-vote than under dual-class shares. Overall, our results show supportive evidence for better allocation and information efficiency of one-share-one-vote and draw attention to some practical issues when the theory is applied to real market settings.

Keywords: One-share-one-vote, corporate takeover, dual-class share, experimental finance, experimental economics

JEL Classification: C92, G32, G34, G38, G41

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Te and Halim, Edward and Riyanto, Yohanes E., One-Share-One-Vote and Dual-Class Shares in the Laboratory (March 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4067551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4067551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Renée Adams , Daniel Ferreira
One share-one vote: The empirical evidence
Review of Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 91 Posted: 2008
Mark Bagnoli , Barton L Lipman
Successful takeovers without exclusion
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 110 Posted: 1988
Te Bao , Edward Halim , Charles N Noussair , Yohanes E Riyanto
Managerial Incentives and Stock Price Dynamics: an Experimental Approach
Experimental Economics , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 617 - 648 Posted: 2021
Robert Bloomfield , Alyssa G Anderson
Experimental finance. Behavioral Finance , p. 113 - 130 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
314,223
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies