Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Road Not Taken: A Comparison of Accounting and Auditing Enforecement Releases and Securities Class Actions

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Apr 2022

Jae Hwan Ahn

Inha University - College of Business Administration; Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 26, 2022

Abstract

Despite the controversial debate over the role of public enforcement and private litigation in detecting and deterring financial misreporting, we have only scant literature comparing their enforcement outcomes: SEC-sanctioned cases (AAERs) and settled class actions against which the SEC did not file cases (SCALs). This paper documents systematic differences between the two. Specifically, AAERs exhibit a larger magnitude of accruals prior to misreporting, as well as greater financing needs and insider trading during manipulation periods. After controlling for case backlogs in the SEC and the courts, the misreporting amount and period of AAERs are also greater and longer than those of SCALs, although SCALs represent greater settlement amounts. Further analysis indicates that resource constraints do not critically undermine the SEC investigations to detect more material misreporting cases. However, plaintiff investors appear to go forum shopping to earn greater settlement proceeds from SCALs. Finally, relative to SCALs, AAERs experienced significant drops in firm performance, analyst following, and CEO tenure around SEC sanctions. Overall, this study provides consistent evidence supporting the SEC’s optimization of detection rates under resource constraints and the strategic interaction between SEC enforcement and private litigation.

Keywords: AAERs, Securities and Exchange Commission, securities class actions, resource constraints, detection rate.

JEL Classification: M41, M48.

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jae Hwan, The Road Not Taken: A Comparison of Accounting and Auditing Enforecement Releases and Securities Class Actions (March 26, 2022). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4067060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4067060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
A Agresti , M Kateri
Categorical data analysis Posted: 2011
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
The Economic Dimensions of Crime , p. 13 - 68 Posted: 1968
M D Beneish
Incentives and penalties related to earnings overstatements that violate GAAP
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 457 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
642
RANK
692,403
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies