Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Risk Model and Family Firms: An Analysis of Internal and External Audit Hours

36 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Menachem (Meni) Abudy

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: March 20, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the differences in auditing practices between family and non-family firms in Israel using a unique database that includes external audit fees, hours, billing rates, and internal auditing hours. Based on the premise that the number of auditing hours reflects an auditor’s efforts, and the hourly rate reflects the auditor’s risk premia, we find that external auditors exert less effort and charge lower hourly rates for family firm engagements than for non-family firm engagements. Moreover, internal audit efforts are lower in family firms than in non-family firms. In terms of the audit risk model, it means that auditors are faced with higher control and detection risks in family firms than in non-family firms. Nevertheless, we find no evidence that family firms have lower reporting quality (higher discretionary accruals) compared with non-family firms, indicating that family firms have low inherent risk. Overall, our findings complement previous findings regarding the determinants of financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Family firms, audit effort, audit rate, audit risk model, internal audit

JEL Classification: G32, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abudy, Menachem (Meni) and Shust, Efrat, The Audit Risk Model and Family Firms: An Analysis of Internal and External Audit Hours (March 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4067625 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4067625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
R C Anderson , D M Reeb , R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
193,307
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies