Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geographical Location and Regulatory Oversight – Evidence from China

63 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Qiaoling Fang

Fuzhou University

Li He

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accountancy

Zhi Jin

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of geographical distance on regulator’s review process over financial reporting. Using hand-collected comment letter (CL) data from the Shanghai Stock Exchange, we find that firms located farther away from the regulator are more likely to receive CLs and the review outcomes are more substantive. Additional analyses using the propensity- score matched sample, first-tier city sample and misreported sample are consistent with our main findings. Moreover, our empirical results show that the effect of geographical proximity on review process is more pronounced for firm with worse information environment. We also find that the regulator is more likely to use CL to point out firm’s accounting compliance or disclosure issues before the news media when firms are located farther away from the regulator. In contrast to the findings of prior literature, our results suggest that the regulator uses the review process as a complementary approach to mitigate the information asymmetry induced by geographical distance.

Keywords: comment letter, geographical location, regulation, disclosure quality, information environment, capital-market effect

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Qiaoling and He, Li and Jin, Zhi and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai, Geographical Location and Regulatory Oversight – Evidence from China (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover Me: Managers' Responses to Changes in Analyst Coverage in the Post-Regulation FD Period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
K Bae , R Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
Z Bozanic , J R Dietrich , B Johnson
SEC comment letters and firm disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 357 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
RANK
741,762
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies