Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Lobbying on Managerial Short-Term Resource Adjustment Decisions

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022 Last revised: 14 May 2024

Johannes Voshaar

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics - Chair of Accounting and Control

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of political lobbying on firms' short-term resource adjustment decisions. Controlling for a wide range of known determinants of managerial cost behaviour, our results suggest that U.S. lobbying firms exhibit significantly less cost stickiness than non-lobbying firms. Lobbying reduces managers' "wait-and-see games" as they obtain preferential access to information on political and legislative processes. With early knowledge of impending (political and regulatory) threats and long-lasting downturns, managers can adjust unutilised capacity more swiftly. This effect is more pronounced for firms without alternative information channels like permanent exchange with regulators. Our findings hold for several robustness checks, for instance, controlling for potential sample selection bias or employing alternative measures of lobbying as well as (political) uncertainty and alternative samples.

Keywords: cost behaviour, cost stickiness, lobbying, political connections, resource adjustment

JEL Classification: D8, D72, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Voshaar, Johannes and Loy, Thomas R. and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, The Impact of Lobbying on Managerial Short-Term Resource Adjustment Decisions (December 21, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
M Adelino , I S Dinc
Corporate Distress and Lobbying: Evidence from the Stimulus Act
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 114 , p. 256 - 272 Posted: 2014
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do Some Outside Directors Play a Political Role?
The Journal of Law & Economics , volume 44 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , M Grady
Political Connections and the Trade-Off Between Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 2730 - 2757 Posted: 2022
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
388,737
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies