Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Insolvency Accounting and Financial Reporting for Non-Going Concerns, Delinquent and Liquidating Entities

46 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2022

Christopher Alozie

University of Nigeria

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigated accounting in non-going concerns, insolvent, liquidating entities and pattern of rendition of these financial reporting in Nigeria and another four focal countries. This research is undertaken with view to establish the existence or lack of specific accounting and financial reporting standards. Ex-post ‘facto’ analyses of accounting standards, laws and regulations guiding management of the affairs of corporate failures, insolvent enterprises, impaired concerns; voluntarily and involuntary liquidation companies were employed. Data sets were extracted from international and national accounting and auditing standards, laws, regulations and insolvency / liquidation procedures alongside financial reports of several distressed, in-liquidation and liquidating entities from five focal countries and used in analyses. These materials were statistically tested using simple numerical analysis, descriptive statistics with mean absolute percentage error or calculate-expected value difference. Result show that there is no such standards unified insolvency accounting standards in global practice; that going concerns’ assumption with use of net book value basis is commonly used by financially distressed entities. The use of net realised values is applied in most liquidation accounting, periodic financial reporting and final liquidation financial reports. Minority shareholdings were sparingly segregated / disclosed in insolvent and liquidating entities financial reporting; and no evidence of liquidation compensation payment made to small (less than 5% investors) equity holders as such action is not yet back-up by law. The paper concluded that there is need for harmonisation of standard on insolvency accounting globally because there is lack of uniformity in international standards followed in corporate insolvency accounting.

Keywords: Non-going Concerns Accounting; Insolvency and Liquidation Accounting; Liquidation Compensation Dividend for Small Unit Equity holders (Minority Investors); International Accounting Standards; Statement of Assets and Liabilities for Liquidating Entities; International Auditing Standards

JEL Classification: K22; Z13

Suggested Citation:

Alozie, Christopher, Corporate Insolvency Accounting and Financial Reporting for Non-Going Concerns, Delinquent and Liquidating Entities (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Accounting Standards Codification , p. 205 - 230 Posted: 2013
A B Agbadudu
Statistics for business and social sciences Posted: 1994
J Armour
The law and economics of corporate insolvency: A review. Working Paper197 Posted: 2001
Forecasting of accuracy of the ACT budget estimates Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
360,957
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies