Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey of Research on the Corporate Governance of Korean Firms

Asian Review of Financial Research, Vol.35, No.1, pp.151-213, 2022

70 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2022

Woochan Kim

Korea University Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Asian Institute of Corporate Governance (AICG)

Woojin Kim

Seoul National University - Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Kyung Suh Park

Korea University - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

This article reviews research conducted from 2011-2020 on the corporate governance of Korean firms. The purpose is to promote academic interest in Korean corporate governance research especially among non-Korean scholars and to provide guidance to young Korean scholars who are working in this area. We begin with the institutional features that are unique to Korea. We explain how they allowed researchers to develop interesting hypotheses that cannot be studied elsewhere, to establish causality that is not possible in other country settings, or to obtain data that are not available elsewhere. Then, we review the studies that examine the control (ownership) and governance structures of Korean firms. We pay attention to their determinants and their consequences. Lastly, we raise methodological concerns in existing studies and also discuss research topics for future research.

Keywords: corporate governance, Korea, control structure, ownership structure, business groups, family firms, related-party transactions

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Woochan and Kim, Woojin and Park, Kyung Suh, A Survey of Research on the Corporate Governance of Korean Firms (February 1, 2022). Asian Review of Financial Research, Vol.35, No.1, pp.151-213, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4069090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4069090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
525
RANK
134,500
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies