Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship Theater

Washington University Law Review, Vol. 100, No. 2, 2022

University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 492

63 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022 Last revised: 13 Apr 2022

Jeff Schwartz

University of Utah - S.J. Quinney College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

Large asset managers like BlackRock and Vanguard have amassed staggering equity holdings. The voting rights that accompany these holdings give them enormous power over many of the world’s largest companies. This unprecedented concentration of influence in a small group of financial intermediaries is a pressing policy concern. While law and finance literature on the topic has recently exploded, no one has offered a satisfying theory to explain their voting behavior. Existing work tries to understand their approach to voting in conventional terms—as an attempt to improve the performance of portfolio firms—but this is not why large asset managers vote the way they do.

In contrast, this Article offers a political theory of asset-manager voting. Because of the power they wield, and the high stakes involved, large asset managers risk severe political blowback from looking like reluctant participants in corporate governance and from voting counter to the views of powerful politicians. As a result, politics rather than finance drives their decisions.

Politically motivated asset-manager voting is problematic. It leads to market uncertainty and threatens the core division between business and government. It is also an illegitimate use of the voting power that asset managers are duty-bound to exercise on behalf of the shareholders in the funds that they oversee. But voting authority is a privilege not a right. To draw politics out of corporate governance, regulators should require that asset managers seek input from fund shareholders and reflect that input in their votes.


Keywords: mutual funds, agency costs, index funds, Vanguard, BlackRock, State Street, Big 3, asset managers, proxy voting, shareholder proposals, ESG, securities law, corporate law, Exxon

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Schwartz, Jeff, Stewardship Theater (March 29, 2022). Washington University Law Review, Vol. 100, No. 2, 2022, University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 492, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4069347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
154 References
Co Inv , Inst
Jeff Tjornehoj
Exploring Fund Industry Concentration: The Good, The Bad, and The Unknown, BROADRIDGE 3-4 & tbl Posted: 2018-04-17
Co Inv , Inst
See Tjornehoj
, p. 5 - 7
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
278,438
154 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies