Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of ESG Information: The Role of Recurrent Reporting of ESG Reports

Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Aug 2022

Catherine Heyjung Sonu

Kookmin University - College of Business and Economics; Korea National Open University - Department of Management

Ahrum Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Date Written: August 25, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the value relevance of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reports which have been issued over a long-term time horizon. Despite concerns raised about the reliability of ESG reports, these reports have become more prevalent over time, now serving as the main communication tool for a firm’s ESG activities. Using a sample of U.S. firms over the period 2002-2019, we show that investors value ESG activities more for firms with commitment to recurrent reporting of ESG reports. We find no evidence of ESG value relevance for firms that stopped issuing ESG reports. In addition, we find that firms recurrently issuing ESG reports are less subject to greenwashing, as indicated by lower energy consumption and reductions in injury rates. Cross-sectional tests show that the positive relation between the recurrent ESG reporting and value relevance is more pronounced among firms with poor information environment and high agency costs. The results are robust to sample heterogeneity, endogeneity concerns, and other robustness tests. Our findings provide evidence on the mechanism through which investors can better evaluate the credibility of ESG disclosures and inform standard-setters and regulators on ways to enhance the value relevance of ESG information.

Keywords: Environmental, social, and governance (ESG), value relevance, ESG report, recurrent reporting

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sonu, Catherine Heyjung and Choi, Ahrum, The Value Relevance of ESG Information: The Role of Recurrent Reporting of ESG Reports (August 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4069287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4069287
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies