Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calling Back the Wave: Did the De-Regulation of Quarterly Reporting Accomplish Its Intended Goals?

48 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Jessica Witte

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Marius Gros

Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Date Written: March 30, 2022

Abstract

The advantages and disadvantages of frequent regular reporting have been discussed extensively in the literature. To date, however, most studies have focused on an increase in reporting frequency leading to quarterly reporting. Taking advantage of a natural quasi-experiment offered by the introduction and subsequent re-abolition of mandatory interim management statements (IMS) in the European Union, we examine a reduction in disclosure frequency. It becomes apparent that (the effects of the) regulation cannot be fully reversed by deregulation. In particular, negative real effects in the form of myopia persist even after firms switch back to less frequent reporting. Therefore, our findings provide important implications for future (de-) regulatory efforts.

Keywords: Quarterly reporting, de-regulation, capital market effects, real effects

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Witte, Jessica and Gros, Marius F. and Loy, Thomas R., Calling Back the Wave: Did the De-Regulation of Quarterly Reporting Accomplish Its Intended Goals? (March 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4070602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4070602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
S Arif , E T De George
The dark side of low financial reporting frequency: Investors' reliance on alternative sources of earnings news and excessive information spillovers
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 23 - 49 Posted: 2020
J Bertomeu , R P Magee
Political pressure and the evolution of disclosure regulation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 775 - 802 Posted: 2015
J Bischof , H Daske
Mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure, and stock market liquidity: Evidence from the EU bank stress tests
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 997 - 1029 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
446,506
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies