Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditor's Role in ESG Disclosure and Assurance: An Analysis of Practical Insights

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2022

9 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022 Last revised: 5 Apr 2023

Annika Bonrath

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Vanessa Lopez-Kasper

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: November 18, 2022

Abstract

Using survey data of 107 internal auditors, we provide empirical evidence about internal auditor’s role in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure and assurance. So far, academics and practitioners have not agreed on the responsibilities of internal auditing in ESG matters. Our regression results give evidence for organizations’ and internal audit functions’ (IAFs) ESG maturity being associated with ESG reporting, while IAFs’ involvement in ESG shows a significant association with assurance of ESG reports. Our results support the notion that the environmental pillar is perceived as the core element of sustainability bearing the highest risk, therefore propelling the need for assurance. The imbalance between assurance and consulting activities on part of IAFs stresses the potential to position the IAF as a value-adding entity in a complementary relation towards external auditors. We further elaborate on IAFs’ non-involvement in ESG and demonstrate the respective lack of awareness on part of stakeholders. Our research provides valuable initial insights for internal audit practitioners in the field of ESG and implications for future research.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, ESG, Nonfinancial Reporting, Sustainability, Assurance

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M42, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Bonrath, Annika and Eulerich, Marc and Lopez-Kasper, Vanessa, Internal Auditor's Role in ESG Disclosure and Assurance: An Analysis of Practical Insights (November 18, 2022). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4070755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4070755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains of
The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Posted: 2021-07-16
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for ‗harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
M Allegrini , G Greco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from Italian listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,718
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,094
RANK
23,621
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies