Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Attributes, Firm Characteristics, and Audit Committee Independence: Evidence from the Canadian Context

Account and Financial Management Journal, Volume 7 Issue 03 March 2022

Posted: 5 May 2022

Rabeb Riahi

University of Gabès; GEF2A Lab

Yemna Zaidi

University of Gabes

Mohamed Ali Zarai

AL-Baha University

Date Written: March 26, 2022

Abstract

To improve the information quality and defend investors’ interests, the current challenge is no longer only to set up an audit committee, but also to ensure its independence. Nevertheless, this independence is not always guaranteed and it depends on several factors. The study aims to identify the determinants of the audit committee independence. We identify factors linked to the manager attributes and factors linked to the firm characteristics. The empirical study is drawn on a sample of Canadian firms over a period of five years. The results show that the independence of the audit committee is negatively related to the size of the board of directors and to the presence of the manager within the remuneration committee. Furthermore, independence of the audit committee seems to be positively linked to the independence of the board of directors and the existence of intangible assets.

Suggested Citation:

Riahi, Rabeb and Zaidi, Yemna and Zarai, Mohamed Ali, Manager Attributes, Firm Characteristics, and Audit Committee Independence: Evidence from the Canadian Context (March 26, 2022). Account and Financial Management Journal, Volume 7 Issue 03 March 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4070738
 Not Available for Download
52 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence en corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Public Oversight Board of the SEC Practice Section
Special Report: Issues Confronting the Accounting Profession Posted: 1993
W Al-Ahdal , H A Hashim
Impact of audit committee characteristics and external audit quality on firm performance: evidence from India
Corporate Governance Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies