Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Downside Risk Similarity and M&As

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-221

88 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022 Last revised: 6 Aug 2025

Lei Chen

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Xinlu Wang

School of Management, Jinan University

LIANG Xu

SKEMA Business School

Date Written: August 04, 2025

Abstract

Downside risks are ubiquitous and can profoundly impact firm operations and valuation. Failure to adequately assess and manage target firms’ downside risks hinders acquirers’ ability to integrate and manage these businesses. This paper introduces a novel measure of firms’ downside risk similarity based on risk factor descriptions and examines its implications for M&A outcomes. We first validate that the measure is distinct from existing similarity measures and that it captures similarity in firms’ potential significant downside. Using the new measure, we find that the market reacts more positively to deals in which acquirers and targets share more downside risks. Additional analyses show that this beneficial effect of downside risk similarity is driven primarily by risks that are idiosyncratic or firm-specific, consistent with these risks requiring acquirers’ relevant expertise to manage. Last, we document that in deals with more similar downside risks, the acquirers experience fewer risk profile changes and are less likely to suffer from adverse outcomes such as deal-specific goodwill impairment, divestitures, and significant profitability declines. Overall, we conclude that downside risk similarity plays a significant role in the M&A process.

Keywords: Downside risks, M&A quality, risk factor descriptions, textual analysis, topic modeling

JEL Classification: G34, M40, G14, M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lei and Huang, Allen H. and Wang, Xinlu and Xu, LIANG, Downside Risk Similarity and M&As (August 04, 2025). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-221, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4070162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4070162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
P Asquith , E H Kim
The impact of merger bids on the participating firms' security holders
Journal of Finance , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1209 - 1228 Posted: 1982
S P Baginski , S B Clinton , S T Mcguire
Forward-looking voluntary disclosure in proxy contests
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 1008 - 1046 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,509
RANK
236,690
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies