Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Factors Affect Preparers’ Attitude Towards IFRS?: Another View

29 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Miho Nakamura

Oita University

Kyoko Nagata

Tokyo Institute of Technology - Graduate School of Decision Science and Technology

Chikako Ozu

Kyushu University

Sidney J. Gray

University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2022

Abstract

The development and diffusion of IFRS is innovative in providing a common business language worldwide. The prior research findings suggest that firms with a larger proportion of sales and activities overseas, more foreign shareholders, and/or larger firms are willing to adopt IFRS. However, focusing on listed firms’ attitude towards IFRS in Japan, where voluntary IFRS adoption is permitted, the findings do not always appear to fit to the fact, which suggests that there are some other factors that affect preparers’ attitude towards IFRS. This study investigates what factors affect preparers’ decision on IFRS adoption by matching firms’ choice to (not) adopt IFRS with the numerical data and analyzing descriptive comments by conducting original survey of Japanese listed firms. We find that although adopters perceived huge costs as much as non-adopters, the high perceived costs are not big obstacles to adopt IFRS. Further, the result shows that IFRS of principle-based accounting leads some preparers to consider adopting IFRS is a good opportunity to restructure their business operating system, which contributes more strongly to preparers’ attitude towards IFRS than the commonly assumed benefits of IFRS adoption. Prior studies indicate that the benefits involved with IFRS adoption are very small for most firms, although this may not be the case.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standard; Voluntary Adoption; Preparers’ Decision; Cost and Benefit; Questionnaire Survey; Principle-based accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nakamura, Miho and Nagata, Kyoko and Ozu, Chikako and Gray, Sidney J., What Factors Affect Preparers’ Attitude Towards IFRS?: Another View (March 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4071441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
M Agostino , D D Damiano , B Silipo
The value relevance of IFRS in the European banking industry
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 437 - 457 Posted: 2011
Y Amano
Real Effects of Intangibles Capitalization-Empirical Evidence from Voluntary IFRS Adoption in Japan
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 36 Posted: 2020
P Andersson , N Hellman
Does Pro Forma Reporting Bias Analyst Forecasts?
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 298 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Quoc Thinh Tran , Khanh Lam Tran
The influence of managers’ perception, steady growth, economic scale, and financial capacity on the ability to adopt international financial reporting standards of Vietnamese enterprises
Cogent Business & Management , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
860
RANK
439,204
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies