Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Presentation Prominence: Does It Matter to Non-Professional Investors? The Case of ‘Other Comprehensive Income’

AASB Research Centre Working Paper 2

40 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2022 Last revised: 27 Sep 2022

Daifei (Troy) Yao

Queensland University of Technology - QUT Business School

Xin Qu

Queensland University of Technology

Tyge Kummer

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires companies to include other comprehensive income (OCI) in the performance statement. Previous research argues that the OCI items in the Statement of Comprehensive Income confuse financial statement users and suggests improving the OCI presentation format. Using an experimental method (N=128), we find that labelling of OCI and the financial position of the company influences non-professional investors’ assessments and evaluation of financial information. Overall, our results indicate that improving the presentation of the OCI items enhances the decision-usefulness of financial information. These results have important practical implications for standard setters and financial statement users.

Keywords: Other comprehensive income, Financial statement presentation, Accounting standard setting, Judgement, Non-professional investors

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Yao, Daifei (Troy) and Qu, Xin and Kummer, Tyge, Presentation Prominence: Does It Matter to Non-Professional Investors? The Case of ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ (April 1, 2022). AASB Research Centre Working Paper 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4071431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Agnes Cheng , C S , J K Cheung , V Gopalakrishnan
On the usefulness of operating income, net income and comprehensive income in explaining security returns
Accounting and Business Research , volume 23 , issue 91 , p. 195 - 203 Posted: 1993
A S Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
B Badertscher , J Burks , P Easton
When a loss is more than just a loss: The market pricing of other-than-temporary impairments Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
339,258
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies