Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Going Concern in Pandemic Situation: Evidence from Indonesia
Heliyon

24 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2022 Publication Status: Published

Fidiana Fidiana

Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Ekonomi Indonesia (STIESIA) Surabaya

Prawita Yani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Diah Hari Suryaningrum

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jawa Timur

Abstract

Going-concern (GC) explanation in audit report adds value and ensures that the firm's sustainability is secured. However, the literature suffers from a strict focus on financial power, with less attention to consider the situational condition of a pandemic as well as less emphasis on dividend policy. Moreover, financial and non-financial factors can affect GC positively or negatively. This study sheds light on this relationship of listed infrastructure, utilities, and transportation firms in Indonesia as the most affected firm by Covid-19. Data were collected from published audited annual reports and extracted from 73 firms as the sample. Logistic regression was employed to test the hypotheses. The results show the importance of leverage, audit quality, prior opinion, and dividend policy in ensuring corporate GC. Conversely, audit committee and institutional holder as one of the corporate governance indicators does not relate to GC explanations. Beyond its contribution to the literature, this study offers valuable feedback for regulatory bodies to consider the enforcement of corporate governance implementation and assists investors in making better-informed decisions. Furthermore, due to a pandemic crisis, a postponed dividend payment has not caused the firm to accept a GC explanatory decision.

Keywords: Going-concern, dividend policy, corporate governance, audit quality, pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Fidiana, Fidiana and Yani, Prawita and Suryaningrum, Diah Hari, Corporate Going Concern in Pandemic Situation: Evidence from Indonesia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4071633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Lawrence J Abbott , Susan Parker , Gary F Peters , K Raghunandan
The Association between Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Jasim Al-Ajmi
Audit Firm, Corporate Governance, and Audit Quality: Evidence from Bahrain
Advances in Accounting , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 74 Posted: 2009
Basil Al-Najjar , Erhan Kilincarslan
The Effect of Ownership Structure on Dividend Policy: Evidence from Turkey , volume 16 , p. 135 - 161 Posted: 2016
Leqaa Al-Othman , Naife
The Reaction of the Financial Market on the Auditor Report: An Empirical Study on Service Companies Listed in Amman Stock Exchange (ASE)
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 267 - 275 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Health eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies