Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management Committee, Institutional Ownership, and Real Earnings Management

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Abubakar, A.H; Mansor, N; Fadhil, N.F.M. (2022). Risk Management Committee, Institutional Ownership, and Real Earnings Management, GATR-Global J. Bus. Soc. Sci. Review, 10(1), 64–71. https://doi.org/10.35609/gjbssr.2022.10.1(7)

8 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Ahmad Haruna Abubakar

Faculty of Business and Management Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin (UniSZA) Malaysia

Noorhayati Mansor

University Sultan Zainal Abidin - Faculty of Economics & Management Sciences

Noor Fadzlina Mohd Fadhil

Faculty of Business and Management Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin (UniSZA) Malaysia

Date Written: March 31, 2022

Abstract


Objective - The study investigates whether firms with an independent risk management committee and the presence of institutional investors will deter management from engaging in real earnings management.

Methodology/Technique - The data are derived from 360 firm-year observations collected over five years (2015-2019). To analyze the data, the Panel Corrected Standard Error is used.

Finding - According to the results, the risk management committee and institutional investors reduce management's desire to manipulate reported earnings.

Novelty - The presence of a risk management committee, according to this paper, reduces managers' discretion to dwell on real earnings manipulations. The study educates regulators on the importance of firms having a separate and active risk management committee to improve internal control and assist the board in monitoring management activities.

Type of Paper - Empirical

Keywords: Earnings Management, Risk Management Committee, Institutional, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M49

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Abubakar, Ahmad Haruna and Mansor, Noorhayati and Mohd Fadhil, Noor Fadzlina, Risk Management Committee, Institutional Ownership, and Real Earnings Management (March 31, 2022). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Abubakar, A.H; Mansor, N; Fadhil, N.F.M. (2022). Risk Management Committee, Institutional Ownership, and Real Earnings Management, GATR-Global J. Bus. Soc. Sci. Review, 10(1), 64–71. https://doi.org/10.35609/gjbssr.2022.10.1(7), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
W N Abdullah , R Said
Audit and risk committee in financial crime prevention
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 223 - 234 Posted: 2019
A H Abubakar , N Mansor , W I A Wan-Mohamad
Corporate Tax Avoidance, Free Cash Flow and Real GATR-Global
J. Bus. Soc. Sci. Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 71 Posted: 2021
Earnings Management: Evidence from Nigeria. Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 86 - 97
Al-Dhamari Ahmed , R Nor , Izah Ku Ismail , K
An investigation into the effect of surplus free cash flow, corporate governance and firm size on earnings predictability
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 118 - 133 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
321,382
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies