Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 1

Posted: 3 Apr 2022

Abigail M. Allen

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Melissa F. Lewis-Western

Brigham Young University - Marriott School of Business

Kristen Valentine

University of Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Firm life-cycle stage reflects a firm's current strategic direction toward exploration independent of age or size. We provide evidence that young life-cycle firms are particularly vulnerable to negative innovation consequences from financial regulation but do not appear to experience any compensating financial reporting quality (FRQ) benefits. Using a generalized difference-in-differences design around Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), we document a significant reduction in both research and development (R&D) spending and innovation outputs for young life-cycle stage firms after regulation. Declines in innovation manifest both from the diversion of scarce resources and from the imposition of an organizational culture mismatched to the pursuit of explorative innovation, resulting in a less generalizable and less diversified patent portfolio. However, we find no evidence that improvements to FRQ materialize to offset these costs. Event study analyses suggest that this negative impact was expected by market participants, and postregulation returns confirm this expectation.

Keywords: firm life-cycle; innovation; explorative innovation, R&D; financial regulation; corporate governance; financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G38, L51, M40, M41, M48, O32

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Abigail M. and Lewis-Western, Melissa Fay and Valentine, Kristen, The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms (March 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072843
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
719
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies