Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Restatements and the Demand for Trade Credit

Mai Dao, Duong Nguyen, Hongkang Xu. Financial Restatements and the Demand for Trade Credit. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 May 2022

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Duong Nguyen

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper is the first to study the relation between financial restatements and restatement firms’ demand for trade credit as a source of financing. Using a sample of U.S.- listed firms for the 2000–2016 period, we find that restatement firms tend to use more trade credit in the year following the restatement disclosure year than do non-restatement firms. Moreover, we find evidence that restatement firms use trade credit to substitute for the reduced reliance on short- and long-term loans. Our further analysis reveals that restatement firms can obtain more trade credit when the firms promptly change the CEOs as a signal for firms’ attempt to repair damaged organizational legitimacy. Taken together, our findings suggest that restatement firms experiencing difficulties in obtaining conventional borrowings tend to resort to trade credit as an alternative source of financing.

Keywords: Financial restatement, financing source, trade credit, supplier financing, substitute for loan

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Mai and Nguyen, Duong and Xu, Hongkang, Financial Restatements and the Demand for Trade Credit (April 1, 2022). Mai Dao, Duong Nguyen, Hongkang Xu. Financial Restatements and the Demand for Trade Credit. Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072744
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies