Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Earnings Information in Dual-Class Firms: Persistence and Predictability

Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Forthcoming 2022)

54 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2022

Rimona Palas

College of Law and Business

Dov Solomon

College of Law and Business - Ramat Gan Law School

Date Written: April 2, 2022

Abstract

A dual-class firm structure, in which one class of shares confers more votes per share than the other, creates a gap between voting rights and cash flow rights. In this paper, we examine the quality of the financial reports of dual- versus single-class firms publicly traded in the U.S. over the 2012–2017 period, as measured by persistence and predictive ability of earnings and cash flows. The results are based on comprehensive information from financial statements analyzed using across-sample and within-sample tests. An additional external indicator of financial restatement filings is also used to support the results. The findings demonstrate that the quality of financial reports is higher for dual-class firms than for single-class firms and increases over time. This suggests that the freedom from market pressures is stronger than agency costs, encouraging founders to provide investors with higher-quality information in exchange for superior voting rights. The results uncover important and counterintuitive evidence about the existence of a tradeoff between the dilution of voting rights and enhancement of the credibility of information provided to investors.

Keywords: dual-class, earnings quality, financial reports, earnings persistence, earnings prediction, cash flow prediction, restatements, agency problems, disclosure, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Palas, Rimona and Solomon, Dov, The Quality of Earnings Information in Dual-Class Firms: Persistence and Predictability (April 2, 2022). Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Forthcoming 2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Jeffrey S Abarbanell , Brian J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Heitor Almeida
Is It Time to Get Rid of Earnings-Per-Share (EPS)?
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 174 - 206 Posted: 2019
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Ray Ball , Joseph Gerakos , T Juhani , Valeri Linnainmaa , Nikolaev
Accruals, Cash Flows, and Operating Profitability in the Cross Section of Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 45 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
151,074
6 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies