Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Related Party Transactions Disclosure on Firms’ Credit Ratings: A Study of Taiwanese Companies Investing in China

80 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2022

Ting-Kai Chou

National Cheng-Kung University

Nen-Chen Richard Hwang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ying-Chieh Wang

Ming Chuan University

Li-Kai Liao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of the disclosure of related party transactions (RPTs) on firms’ credit ratings. It also explores whether corporate governance and governmental control will moderate this effect. Employing the efficient transaction hypothesis and conflicts of interest view, the study shows that the disclosure of RPTs conducted by Taiwanese companies to invest in China significantly and negatively affect firms’ credit ratings. Results also demonstrate that corporate governance and governmental control moderate the effects of the RPTs disclosure on firms’ credit ratings. Furthermore, we conduct several additional tests and confirm that the robustness of empirical findings reported. In conclusion, we offer several policy implications of research findings to corporate executives and regulatory agencies. Further research directions are also discussed.

Keywords: Related-party transaction, disclosure, credit rating, regulation, corporate governance, governmental control

Suggested Citation:

Chou, Ting-Kai and Hwang, Nen-Chen Richard and Wang, Ying-Chieh and Liao, Li-Kai, Effects of Related Party Transactions Disclosure on Firms’ Credit Ratings: A Study of Taiwanese Companies Investing in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4073773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
M Ahn , S Bonsall , Van Buskirk , A
Asymmetric disclosure to credit rating agencies Posted: 2014
M Ahn , S Bonsall , Van Buskirk , A
Do managers withhold bad news from credit rating agencies?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 972 - 1021 Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effect of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance? The Review of
Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
538,134
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies