Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Cost of Capital: The Moderating Role of Policy Intervention

Research in International Business and Finance 2022

Posted: 2 May 2022

Nandan Prabhu

MIM, MAHE

S Moodbidri

Independent Consultant

Weng Marc Lim

Independent

Krishna Prasad

Justice K S Hegde Institute of Management

Date Written: March 3, 2022

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and cost of capital (COC) have been investigated in the past but not in tandem with policy intervention. This paper examines the impact of CSR on COC together with the policy intervention of mandatory CSR. This study uses a sample of 512 nonfinancial firms in India as a case and the costs of debt (COD) and equity (COE) as measures for COC. The findings indicate that (1) higher CSR performance decreases COD and increases COE and that (2) mandatory CSR legislation moderates their relationships such that it increases COD and COE. Therefore, consistent with signaling theory, we conclude that mandatory CSR spending signals a loss of discretionary power of CSR spending and signal intentionality and an implicit increase in agency costs. © 2022 Elsevier B.V.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility; cost of capital; cost of debt; cost of equity; mandatory CSR legislation; policy intervention; signaling theory

Suggested Citation:

Prabhu, Nandan and Moodbidri, S and Lim, Weng Marc and Prasad, Krishna, Corporate Social Responsibility and Cost of Capital: The Moderating Role of Policy Intervention (March 3, 2022). Research in International Business and Finance 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies