Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovations in IPO Deal Structure: Do Up-C IPOs Harm Public Shareholders?

Management Science (Forthcoming)

56 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Mary Brooke Billings

New York University

Kevin Hsueh

New York University

Melissa F. Lewis-Western

Brigham Young University - Marriott School of Business

Gladriel Shobe

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Date Written: April 2, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines an innovation in capital formation that has spurred contentious debate: the
Umbrella Partnership Corporation (“Up-C”) IPO. Advisors and underwriters argue that the Up-C deal structure is a driver of post-IPO value and, thus, is a value-enhancing means of raising capital that may be one solution to concerns regarding the drop in the number of publicly traded companies. Consistent with these claims, recent research suggests that organizing soon-to-be public businesses as pass-through entities (as is the case for UpCs) leads to superior future performance. Yet, broadening the analysis to consider abnormal stock performance and post-IPO litigation of a larger and more recent sample of exclusively Up-C IPOs, we conclude just the opposite. While the Up-C deal structure increases IPO valuations and predicts positive post-IPO operating performance, the return performance of Up-C IPOs indicates that Up-C deals harm public shareholders. Further, despite their superior earnings performance, Up-C IPOs face a significantly higher rate of post-IPO litigation as compared to non-Up-C IPOs. Because IPO investors seemingly do not anticipate the myriad ways in which the Up-C deal structure might facilitate opportunism by pre-IPO owners, they frequently turn to litigation as an ex-post settling-up mechanism. Consequently, our paper offers the first empirical evidence of downsides associated with the Up-C deal structure for public shareholders and, in so doing, affords the rarity of having academic evidence lead (as opposed to respond to) a controversial debate.

Keywords: IPO, Up-C, Tax Receivable Agreements, TRAs, Dual Class

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Mary Brooke and Hsueh, Kevin and Lewis-Western, Melissa Fay and Shobe, Gladriel, Innovations in IPO Deal Structure: Do Up-C IPOs Harm Public Shareholders? (April 2, 2022). Management Science (Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R Aggarwal
Stabilization activities by underwriters after initial public offerings
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 1075 - 1103 Posted: 2000
D Aggarwal , O Eldar , Y Hochberg , L Litov
The rise of dual-class stock IPOs Posted: 2021
Andersentax
The Rise of the Up-C and TRA in IPOs Posted: 2016
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,773
RANK
132,890
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies