Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Spillover from Going-Private Activity

55 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022 Last revised: 26 Apr 2024

Lisa A. Hinson

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Jeffery Piao

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

Public firms that go private are no longer subject to SEC financial reporting requirements. This study examines peer firms’ disclosure responses following the lost information spillover from going-private events. We first support the lost information transfer, finding evidence that analyst forecasts of peers’ earnings are less accurate and more disperse and that peer liquidity is lower immediately following going-private transactions. In response, industry peers increase disclosure quality in mandatory filings. Peers that enhance disclosure regain some of the lost informational benefits. The disclosure response is most evident in firms that rely more on intra-industry information spillover, firms with lower competitive concerns, and firms with the greatest deteriorations in their information environments after going-private activity. Our study examines an underexplored aspect of going-private transactions – the loss of public disclosure – and finds that the lost information imposes a negative externality that prompts peers to increase self-disclosure to regain informational benefits.

Keywords: going private, information spillover, information externality, peer effects, mergers, information transfer

JEL Classification: D80; L22; M41

Suggested Citation:

Hinson, Lisa A. and Piao, Jeffery, Disclosure Spillover from Going-Private Activity (September 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4073023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors, and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
K Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,598
RANK
210,853
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies