Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Important Are Semi-Annual Earnings Announcements? An Information Event Perspective

AASB Research Centre Working Paper 3

41 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022 Last revised: 27 Sep 2022

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Alex Tong

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

Using a method that avoids the need to specify earnings expectations (Ball and Shivakumar 2008), we demonstrate that the period surrounding the semi-annual announcement of Australian firms’ earnings is, on average, an important source of information. Although there is substantial year-to-year variation, we observe no evidence of any significant time trend, and also conclude that a shift from Australian domestic GAAP to IFRS did not impact the association between earnings announcement windows and stock returns. We also find no evidence that the informativeness of earnings announcements varies systematically with firm size, analyst following or economic news (i.e., positive versus negative stock returns, profits versus losses), although we do observe significant variation across industries. Our conclusion is further supported by contrasting the earnings release date with the days immediately prior to release, or high information days other than earnings announcement windows. Using a more precise event window relative to prior studies (i.e., three hours versus three days), we confirm that earnings announcements contain significant new information about fundamentals.

Keywords: Earnings announcements, information content.

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Stephen L. and Tong, Alex, How Important Are Semi-Annual Earnings Announcements? An Information Event Perspective (April 1, 2022). AASB Research Centre Working Paper 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4074170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4074170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
information. Following He and Tian Posted: 2013
Abnormal adjusted R 2 is the regression adjusted R 2 less the expectation of six trading days assuming daily stock returns are i.i.d. Calendar-year stock returns are regressed on earnings announcement window returns. Calendar-year returns are adjusted for dividends and stock capitalisation changes. Earnings announcement window returns are daily compounded returns for the three days centered on the earnings release date
Observations , volume 634 , issue 1 Posted: 2000
References Ball , R Brown , P
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
R Ball , P Brown
Ball and Brown (1968) after fifty years
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 53 , p. 410 - 431 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
737
RANK
531,260
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies