Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Competency internal audit staff on Internal Audit Effectiveness in Rwanda’s Public Organization

26 Pages Posted: 4 May 2022 Last revised: 23 May 2022

Dr. Jean Paul Mpakaniye

INES-RUHENGERI

Date Written: April 3, 2022

Abstract

The aim of this study is all about the assessment of the effect of competency of internal audit staff on internal audit effectiveness in Rwanda's public organizations. The specific objectives of this study were to assess indicators of competency of internal audit staff, to analyze the determinants of internal audit effectiveness, and to assess the correlation between competency of internal audit staff and internal audit effectiveness in KABAYA District Hospital. Research questions: What are the indicators of competency of internal audit staff in KABAYA District Hospital? What are the determinants of internal audit effectiveness in KABAYA District Hospital? Does the competency of internal audit staff collate with the internal audit effectiveness in Rwanda's public organizations? The study adopted a descriptive case study design using both qualitative and quantitative methods. The purposive sampling technique was used to select 20 respondents as the sample size. Primary and secondary data were used and collected using a questionnaire, interviews, and documentary review. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics presented in the frequency table and percentage. From the finding, this study aims to identify the competence of internal audit staff to improve the Competence of Internal Auditors, Independence and objectivity of an internal audit, Management support for internal audit, and Internal audit quality as the determinants of internal audit effectiveness in KABAYA District Hospital. Therefore, based on the results, it is concluded competency of internal auditors play an important role in the effectiveness of internal audit in KABAYA District Hospital. The correlation coefficient, which shows the relationship between the study variables, from the findings showed that there was a strong positive relationship between the competency of internal auditors and internal audit effectiveness. The study recommends training of internal auditors in the organization as an important tool for motivating internal auditors toward the effectiveness of internal audit

JEL Classification: Competency internal audit staff; Internal Audit Effectiveness; Public Organization

Suggested Citation:

Mpakaniye, Dr. Jean Paul, Effect of Competency internal audit staff on Internal Audit Effectiveness in Rwanda’s Public Organization (April 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4074112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4074112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
Q Abbas , J Iqbal
Internal control system: Analyzing theoretical perspective and practices
Middle-East Journal of Scientific Research , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 530 - 538 Posted: 2012
M Abdolmohammadi
Correlates co-sourcing/outsourcing of internal audit activities
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2013
D A Abowitz , T M Toole
Mixed method research: Fundamental issues of design, validity, and reliability in construction research
Journal of construction engineering and management , volume 136 , issue 1 , p. 108 - 116 Posted: 2010
S S Ahlawat , D J Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity: in-house versus outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
707
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,190
RANK
83,503
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies