Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors’ Information Acquisition and Firm Financing Decisions: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

53 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2022 Last revised: 26 Apr 2022

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Emmanuel Ofosu

Lingnan University

Xin Yang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 26, 2022

Abstract

Using the SEC’s 2016 Tick Size Pilot Program (TSPP) as a natural experiment, we investigate the effects of investors’ information acquisition on equity versus debt financing. We find a significant increase in firms’ preference for equity over debt issuance after the TSPP’s implementation. This increase is concentrated among firms that experience decreases in algorithmic trading and increases in information acquisition activities. We also find that the effect of the TSPP is more pronounced for firms with high information asymmetry prior to the program. Taken together, our results suggest that investors’ information acquisition has a causal effect on firms’ financing choices.

Keywords: Tick Size Pilot Program; Fundamental information acquisition; Information asymmetry; Small-cap firm financing

JEL Classification: G12; G14; G32; M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Ng, Jeffrey and Ofosu, Emmanuel and Yang, Xin, Investors’ Information Acquisition and Firm Financing Decisions: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (April 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4074612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4074612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , S Song , C Yao
The price effects of liquidity shocks: A study of the SEC's tick size experiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 700 - 724 Posted: 2020
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1986
S T Bharath , P Pasquariello , G Wu
Does asymmetric information drive capital structure decisions?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3211 - 3243 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,626
RANK
249,893
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies