Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Prefer Female CEOs in Activist-Targeted Firms? The Role of CEO Gender, Shareholder Activism Type, and Earnings Guidance Disclosure

47 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2022 Last revised: 8 Feb 2024

Scott C. Jackson

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

M. David Piercey

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: February 6, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the increasing trend of shareholder activism and its impact on individual investors. Motivated by prior research that finds female CEOs are more likely to be targeted by shareholder activism, we examine how the nature of shareholder activism (Profitability-focused versus Environmental/Social-focused (“E&S-focused”)) interacts with CEO gender to create perceptions of match or mismatch for nonprofessional investors, in terms of perceived ability to address the shareholder activism. Drawing on role-congruity theory, we predict and find that female CEOs are rewarded under E&S-focused activism, but punished under profitability-focused activism, in terms of investors’ willingness to invest in the firm targeted by the activism. We also find that when managers disclose an optimistic earnings guidance forecast, this disclosure attenuates reliance on gender-based stereotypes to inform investment decisions. Finally, we find evidence that earnings guidance disclosure has a stronger impact on perceptions of female CEOs than male CEOs.

Keywords: shareholder activism, earnings guidance, CEO gender, role congruity

JEL Classification: C91, D91, G11, G41, J16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Scott and Agoglia, Christopher P. and Piercey, M. David, Do Investors Prefer Female CEOs in Activist-Targeted Firms? The Role of CEO Gender, Shareholder Activism Type, and Earnings Guidance Disclosure (February 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4075438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4075438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A E Abele
The dynamics of masculine-agentic and feminine-communal traits: Findings from a prospective study
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 768 - 776 Posted: 2003
T Adams , T Neururer
Shareholder activism and changes in audit committee composition
, volume 3239994 Posted: 2020
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory Testing and Process Evidence in Accounting Experiments
Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
H S Asay , J Hales , C Hinds , K Rupar
Nonprofessional Investor Judgments: Linking Dependent Measures to Constructs , volume 98 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Scott C. Jackson , Kristina M. Rennekamp , Blake A. Steenhoven
CEO gender and responses to shareholder activism
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 1726 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
RANK
189,110
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies