Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Peer Firm Information in Mergers and Acquisitions of Privately Held Targets

56 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022 Last revised: 23 Dec 2023

Ciao-Wei Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Daniel W. Collins

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

David S. Koo

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether acquirers make more profitable acquisitions of privately held targets when they have better information about the target’s public peer firms. We also explore how acquirers use such public peer information in the M&A process. We find that richer public peer information is associated with more profitable private target acquisitions. Furthermore, we find public peer information is more useful when acquirers have ex ante greater uncertainty about the private target. Finally, we find evidence that acquirers obtain more information about the target’s public peer firms, are more likely to select a peer firm as a comparable company, have lower valuation multiples, and are less likely to include earnouts in the M&A contract, when public peer firm information is more informative. This evidence is consistent with acquirers using public peer information to mitigate adverse selection and moral hazard.

Keywords: peer firms; information environment; mergers and acquisitions; private firms; price informativeness

JEL Classification: G14; G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ciao-Wei and Collins, Daniel W. and Koo, David S. and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean, Public Peer Firm Information in Mergers and Acquisitions of Privately Held Targets (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4075177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4075177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A K Agrawal
The impact of investor protection law on corporate policy and performance: Evidence from the blue sky laws
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , p. 417 - 435 Posted: 2013
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firms: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
Ray Ball , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
How much new information is there in earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
174,532
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies