Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary vs. Mandatory: The Role of Auditing in Constraining Corporate Tax Avoidance in Small Private Firms

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

59 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Milda Tylaite

Stockholm School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: April 7, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether the status of the financial statement audit, as either voluntary or mandatory, is related to the corporate tax avoidance behaviour of private firms. Using the Swedish audit regime shift in 2010 which removed mandatory audit requirements for small private companies, we find that voluntarily audited firms exhibit a 19% decrease in total income tax burden relative to firms subject to mandatory audit following the regulatory change. This decrease corresponds to an average SEK 15,000 (approximately 1,500 euros) lower tax payment and is driven primarily by increasing conforming tax avoidance. We also find that increasing tax avoidance in voluntarily audited firms occurs, at least partly, due to impaired auditor independence under the voluntary audit regime. Finally, we show that the non-tax costs of tax avoidance restrict these tax-driven reporting changes. Our findings contribute to the literature on auditors’ constraining effect on corporate tax avoidance as well as to the debate over the costs and benefits of a mandatory financial statement audit regime.

Keywords: Voluntary audit; Tax avoidance; Micro firms

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Ting and Tylaite, Milda and Wilson, Ryan J., Voluntary vs. Mandatory: The Role of Auditing in Constraining Corporate Tax Avoidance in Small Private Firms (April 7, 2022). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4077995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
I Barakova , M N Hasan , H Parthasarathy
Covenant violations, collateral and credit access: Public and private firms
SSRN Working Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
706
RANK
337,747
6 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies