Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too much (early) information? The option to test the waters before going public

67 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

Michele Dathan

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Yan Xiong

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business

Date Written: April 7, 2022

Abstract

The declining number of U.S. public companies has attracted concern from regulators, prompting changes to make the IPO process more attractive. One key initiative, the JOBS Act, was designed to reduce IPO costs by allowing eligible firms to test the waters with investors and reduce disclosure. Using a difference-in-differences setting, we show that these provisions have decreased targeted firms’ propensity to go public relative to the control samples, but improved the average quality of targeted firms that complete an IPO. This is consistent with our conceptual framework where testing the waters (rather than reduced disclosure) gives firms an opportunity to learn from investors before incurring information revelation costs from a public filing.

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Dathan, Michele and Xiong, Yan,
Too much (early) information? The option to test the waters before going public
(April 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4078355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
F Allen , G R Faulhaber
Signalling by underpricing in the IPO market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 323 Posted: 1989
L G Anthony , Pllc
Smaller reporting companies (SRCs) and emerging growth companies (EGCs) Posted: 2018
J Bai , A Ma , M Zheng
Segmented going-public markets and the demand for SPACs Posted: 2023
A Balogh , U Creedy , D Wright
Time to acquire: Regulatory burden and M&A activity
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 82 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
246,297
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies