Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Titans Deliver the ESG Promise? Societal Recognition and Responsible Corporate Decisions

88 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 14 Oct 2024

Hisham Farag

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Santosh Koirala

University of Birmingham, Birmingham Business School

Di Luo

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Sandeep Rao

Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Distinguished societal recognition can influence corporate decision-makers to act responsibly. We exploit this unique sociological attribute of UK firm board members and examine honorary titles' impact on the firm’s environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performances. Using the peerage and honorific titles of board members of public UK firms from 2002 to 2020, we demonstrate that firms wherein board members have a title of honour are associated with higher ESG performance. We also document a positive contagion effect of titleholders on other board members, which contributes to firms’ ESG performance. Our findings align with theories of resource dependence, upper echelons and peer effects postulations and highlight the importance of societal recognition in shaping corporate decisions towards sustainability.

Keywords: ESG, Title of Honor, Social identity, Social influence, Peerage system, Honorific, Board characteristics, corporate board governance

JEL Classification: G30,G38

Suggested Citation:

Farag, Hisham and Koirala, Santosh and Luo, Di and Rao, Sandeep, Do Titans Deliver the ESG Promise? Societal Recognition and Responsible Corporate Decisions (March 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4078094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
P Akey , I Appel
The Limits of Limited Liability: Evidence from Industrial Pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
C Ballester , Y Zenou , A Calvó-Armengol
Delinquent networks
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 61 Posted: 2010
P Bayer , R Hjalmarsson , D Pozen
Building criminal capital behind bars: Peer effects in juvenile corrections
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 147 Posted: 2009
P Bayer , S L Ross , G Topa
Place of work and place of residence: Informal hiring networks and labor market outcomes
Journal of Political Economy , volume 116 , issue 6 , p. 1150 - 1196 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
280,604
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies