Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voting on Reporting

48 Journal of Corporation Law (Forthcoming, 2022)

38 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2022 Last revised: 28 Jul 2022

Israel Klein

Ariel University - Department of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: April 7, 2022

Abstract

Studies show the usefulness of public companies' annual reports has been consistently declining. In the past, financial metrics disclosed in regulated financial statements, such as a company’s book value or operating income (“GAAP metrics”) provided a meaningful explanation of stock prices and thus allowed for an efficient market-based allocation of capital among publicly-traded firms, as well as the economy at-large.

Disturbingly, GAAP metrics no longer provide a strong correlation with stock prices, nor with the economy at-large: while enjoying a booming economy, nearly half of all U.S. public companies reported losses in their pre-Covid financial statements.

Meanwhile, publicly traded companies have been increasing disclosures of alternative metrics, i.e., newly-created adjustments to the GAAP metrics (“non-GAAPs”) appearing in press releases and in formats other than audited statements thereby exacerbating the potential for opportunistic and misleading reporting by managers. The reporting and content of non-GAAPs are carried out at the discretion of management alone, do not follow any consensually binding practices and are not a result of negotiations with stakeholders. Not surprisingly, findings show managers opportunistically disclose non-GAAP earnings to conceal reported losses and to meet or beat analysts’ expectations.

When faced with deficiencies in the regulated financial disclosure, private parties are able to negotiate alternative novel metrics that substitute the use of GAAP metrics in contractual arrangements. Executives of publicly traded firms act alike, and use tailor-made financial indicators in compensation schemes. Investors in publicly traded companies, however, do not enjoy similar privileges, cannot negotiate financial metrics disclosed, and remain bound to a flawed generic financial disclosure regime.

Juxtaposing private parties’ negotiation over the financial metrics used in voluntary contracts with the limitation investors in public companies face, this article proposes a novel approach for financial disclosure regulation—a Voting on Reporting regime under which companies, after gaining the consent of their shareholders, are allowed to report alternative but audited financial metrics that replace GAAP metrics and better fit their shareholders’ information needs.

At present, financial metrics disclosed by publicly traded companies are either dictated by the regulator (GAAP) or opportunistically used and governed by managers alone (non-GAAPs). By allowing shareholders to participate in devising and regulating a company’s financial reporting, the new regime could kill two birds with one stone: (i) it would allow financial statements to better cater to investors’ interests and information needs; and (ii) it would curtail managers' opportunistic reporting of non-GAAPs.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Securities Regulation, Corporate Law, Corporate Governance, Disclosure, GAAP, Non-GAAP, Regulation G

JEL Classification: K2, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Klein, Israel, Voting on Reporting (April 7, 2022). 48 Journal of Corporation Law (Forthcoming, 2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4078226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
775
RANK
692,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies