Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Purpose Proposals

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-21

University of Chicago Business Law Review, Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 638/2022

49 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2022 Last revised: 18 Apr 2022

Jill E. Fisch

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 4, 2022

Abstract

Repurposing the corporation is the hot issue in corporate governance. Commentators, investors and increasingly issuers, maintain that corporations should shift their focus from maximizing profits for shareholders to generating value for a more expansive group of stakeholders. Corporations are also being called upon to address societal concerns – from climate change and voting rights to racial justice and wealth inequality.

The shareholder proposal rule, Rule 14a–8, offers one potential tool for repurposing the corporation. This Article describes the introduction of innovative proposals seeking to formalize corporate commitments to stakeholder governance. These “purpose proposals” reflect a new dynamic in the debate over stakeholder governance by enabling shareholders to communicate their views about corporate purpose to their fellow shareholders and management. At the same time, purpose proposals highlight the potential problems with a shareholder voting process dominated by a handful of institutional intermediaries whose interests, particularly with respect to corporate purpose, may not be aligned with those of their beneficiaries.

This Article provides the first analysis of purpose proposals. It presents data on the introduction of these proposals and the extent to which they have commanded shareholder support. It interrogates the justifications for the proposals offered by their proponents. Finally, it considers the role of the shareholder proposal rule in offering a mechanism for shareholder debate over corporate purpose.

Keywords: Corporate governance, shareholder proposals, statements of purpose, stakeholder capitalism, public benefit corporations, PBCs, institutional investors, fiduciary duty, shareholder voting, SEC Rule 14a-8, ESG

JEL Classification: D22, G34, L21

Suggested Citation:

Fisch, Jill E., Purpose Proposals (April 4, 2022). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-21, University of Chicago Business Law Review, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 638/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4079135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
575
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,972
RANK
108,975
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies