Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Mobility: An External Governance Mechanism

59 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 27 Apr 2022

Yao Lu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Zhang Peng

Central University of Finance and Economics University, School of Public Finance and Taxation

Date Written: April 19, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the effects of labor market mobility on corporate governance. Using the state-level staggered changes of noncompete agreement enforceability as the variation in labor market mobility, we find that restricting labor market mobility leads to less efficient investment decisions and executive compensation schemes. The impact of labor market mobility is more prevalent in firms relying more on skilled employees and in firms facing fiercer product market competition. This suggests that labor market mobility imposes greater pressure on firm managers. Labor market mobility is also positively associated with stock price informativeness, and the impact of labor market mobility is more prevalent in firms with higher information acquisition costs. This suggests that a more liquid labor market can enhance information transparency between firms and outside investors. Overall, these findings imply that labor market mobility can serve as an important external governance mechanism and discipline firms’ behaviors.

Keywords: labor market mobility; corporate governance; employees’ voting with their feet; information transparency.

JEL Classification: G34; J60; M41.

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Yao and Peng, Zhang, Labor Market Mobility: An External Governance Mechanism (April 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4079690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4079690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
RANK
258,355
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies