Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firing and Hiring the CEO: What Does CEO Turnover Data Tell Us About Succession Planning?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

22 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2022

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Edward M. Watts

Yale School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 7, 2022

Abstract

We examine CEO turnover and succession planning using a unique and highly comprehensive data set from the company exechange. Exechange applies a novel methodology that evaluates the circumstances surrounding a CEO departure to determine the degree to which the turnover event might be voluntary or involuntary (called the Push-Out Score). With this data, we are able to provide new statistics on CEO departures and fresh analysis in three areas of succession planning—sensitivity of turnover to performance, board preparedness to name a successor, and the performance of internal and external successors—to arrive at a more current assessment of the quality of CEO succession planning among publicly traded companies in the U.S.

Keywords: Corporate governance, CEO turnover, CEO terminations, succession planning, interim successors, permanent successors, internal, external, voluntary, involuntary, Push-Out Scores, disclosure, board oversight, board of directors, corporate governance research

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian and Watts, Edward, Firing and Hiring the CEO: What Does CEO Turnover Data Tell Us About Succession Planning? (April 7, 2022). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4079127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,065
RANK
113,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies