Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not Ready for Primetime: Financial Reporting Quality after SPAC Mergers

Forthcoming at Management Science

26 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Seyoung Park

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Kyle Peterson

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: April 8, 2022

Abstract

We examine the financial reporting quality of Special Purpose Acquisition Corporations (SPACs) following a successful merger. We compare a sample of SPACs with completed mergers from 2006-2020 to initial public offering (IPO) firms in the same industry covering the same period. Compared to similar IPO firms, SPACs are more likely to restate their financial statements and have internal control weaknesses. We also find that SPACs are more likely to file untimely financial statements, amend previously issued filings, and have comment letters that go more rounds with the SEC. This lower reporting quality also results in less informative earnings to investors. Our evidence corroborates concerns from the media, accounting firms, and regulators that SPACs exhibit low financial reporting quality in comparison to IPOs.

Keywords: Special Purpose Acquisition Companies, SPAC; Financial reporting quality; IPO

JEL Classification: G17

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaewoo and Park, Seyoung and Peterson, Kyle and Wilson, Ryan J., Not Ready for Primetime: Financial Reporting Quality after SPAC Mergers (April 8, 2022). Forthcoming at Management Science , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4079131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4079131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,290
RANK
86,837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies