Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Manipulation and Corporate Culture

51 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 28 Jun 2023

Maimuna Akter, PhD

Gonzaga University - School of Business Administration

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Shan Ji

Capital Markets CRC

Vincenzo Verdoliva

University of Naples "Parthenope"

Date Written: April 10, 2022

Abstract

We propose that market manipulation, which brings about managerial short-termism, shareholder awareness and changes in risk preferences, and an opaque environment, has a negative causal impact on the four dimensions of corporate culture: create, compete, and control orientations of the corporate culture. We test this proposition by matching corporate culture dimensions from textual analysis of 10-K reports to suspected cases of market manipulation using NASD surveillance software for all US publicly traded firms. The data indicate market manipulation consistently negatively affects the corporate culture dimensions in subsequent years, and this effect is not temporary. We propose shareholder activism and reduced corporate risk-taking to be the potential channels of the relationship. However, the presence of common ownership moderates the impact of market manipulation on corporate culture by improving corporate governance and reducing information costs. The results are robust using different identification strategies, alternative model specifications, and adjustments for potential endogeneity.

Keywords: Market Manipulation, Misconduct, Corporate Culture

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Akter, Maimuna and Cumming, Douglas J. and Ji, Shan and Verdoliva, Vincenzo, Market Manipulation and Corporate Culture (April 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4080428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4080428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
D Aghanya , V Agarwal , S Poshakwale
Market in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), stock price informativeness and liquidity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 113 Posted: 2020
R K Aggarwal , G Wu
Stock market manipulations
The Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 1915 - 1953 Posted: 2006
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
195,121
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies