Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Role of Process Mining in Business Process Compliance

51 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2022

Nigel Adams

University of Melbourne

Adriano Augusto

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael J Davern

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting; University of Melbourne

Marcello La Rosa

University of Melbourne

Abstract

Business Process Compliance (BPC) is a heavily researched domain in academia and one where significant progress has been made. However, there are known challenges. Some of these may be addressed by recent advances in process mining. To assess this proposition, we analyze progress across both fields of research in a banking context. Banks are heavily regulated and ensuring process compliance is expensive, complex and not guaranteed to succeed. In recent years, there have been a significant number of heavily publicized failings in Australia that point to the difficulties of maintaining business process compliance in practice. We proceed by first identifying evaluation criteria from a meta-review of the BPC literature and findings from the banking regulators, and then mapping the BPC studies to these criteria. Alongside, we present a meta-review of critical process mining capabilities and subsequently map these capabilities to the identified evaluation criteria. By leveraging the resulting conceptual map, we analyze known and novel BPC challenges, outlining the roadblocks to be addressed by BPC and process mining research to enable wide-scale deployment in practice.

Keywords: Business Process Compliance, Process Mining, Banking, Australia

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Nigel and Augusto, Adriano and Davern, Michael J. and La Rosa, Marcello, On the Role of Process Mining in Business Process Compliance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4081558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4081558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
RANK
306,185
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Data Science, Data Analytics & Informatics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies