Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Fund-level Liquidity Requirements

51 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 11 Feb 2025

Indraneel Chakraborty

University of Miami - Department of Finance

Elia Ferracuti

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

John C. Heater

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Matthew Phillips

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: February 11, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the effects of mandatory mutual fund liquidity requirements on fund fragility. After the implementation of SEC Rule 22e-4, as required, bond mutual funds hold more liquid securities. However, we find that additional liquidity does not ameliorate fragility. Post-rule, funds with illiquid securities face greater outflows conditional on past underperformance, and fund exits increase. At the holdings level, funds exhibit a higher likelihood of selling illiquid securities post-rule. In turn, such sales increase fund underperformance, thus completing the vicious cycle of fragility. These results are consistent with the theory that fund-level liquidity does not necessarily reduce fund-run incentives. 

Keywords: liquidity requirements, open-end mutual fund, market fragility

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G33, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chakraborty, Indraneel and Ferracuti, Elia and Heater, John C. and Phillips, Matthew, The Consequences of Fund-level Liquidity Requirements (February 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4081278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4081278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
F Allen , D Gale
From cash-in-the-market pricing to financial fragility
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 3 , p. 535 - 546 Posted: 2005
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
J B Berk , R C Green
Mutual fund flows and performance in rational markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , p. 1269 - 1295 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,489
RANK
248,977
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies