Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board busyness and corporate payout: are all busy directors the same?

Benson, B., Davidson, T., James, H., & Wang, H. (2022). Board busyness and corporate payout: are all busy directors the same?. Accounting & Finance.

49 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

Bradley W. Benson

Ball State University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Travis Davidson

Ohio University - Department of Finance

Hui L. James

University of Texas at Tyler

Hongxia Wang

Coastal Carolina University

Date Written: April 12, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how board busyness affects corporate payout policies. We find that board busyness increases the propensity and the level of cash distribution to shareholders. The likelihood and the level of share repurchases increase with inside director busyness, while the propensity to pay dividends and the level of dividends increase with independent director busyness. Further analysis shows that SOX and the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act do not alter the positive association between busy independent directors and the likelihood of paying dividends, nor do these regulations change busy inside directors’ preference for repurchases.

Keywords: Payout policy, Dividends and repurchases, Busy directors, Busy inside directors, Busy independent directors

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Benson, Bradley W. and Davidson, Travis and James, Hui L. and Wang, Hongxia, Board busyness and corporate payout: are all busy directors the same? (April 12, 2022). Benson, B., Davidson, T., James, H., & Wang, H. (2022). Board busyness and corporate payout: are all busy directors the same?. Accounting & Finance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4082218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
540
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies