Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Risk Exposure: A Tale of Two Tails

47 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Runfeng Yang

Central South University

Massimiliano Caporin

University of Padua - Department of Statistical Sciences

Juan-Angel Jiménez-Martin

Complutense University of Madrid

Date Written: April 12, 2022

Abstract

Investing in ESG assets has now become the rule of thumb whenever investors want risk
shield, especially during the COVID period. Since ESG investments are evidenced to have
lower downside risk, how and to which extent the downside risk of a company is affected by
its ESG activities is of particular interest to investors and regulators. This paper studies the
ESG impact to the downside risk of companies in the US market by introducing a novel
measure, the ESG risk contribution (△CoESGRisk). △CoESGRisk is a measurement based
on the co-movement between the ESG risk factor (the realization of ESG activities in the
market) and the downside risk. We show that when there is a sudden increase in the ESG risk factor, the downside risk of high-ESG companies is reduced. However, under extreme conditions, the downside risk of high-ESG companies could also be increased. The ESG impact is positively correlated with the ESG performance and company size, and it varies among different sectors. Our paper provides investors with a new method for ESG risk management. For regulators, our new
measurement offers some references on evaluating the impact of ESG-related policies through
quantifying the ESG risk contribution.

Keywords: ESG, ESG Risk Factor, Fama/MacBeth Risk Factor, Quantile Regression, CoVaR, ESG Sentiment

JEL Classification: G12, G32, C51

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Runfeng and Caporin, Massimiliano and Jiménez-Martin, Juan-Angel, ESG Risk Exposure: A Tale of Two Tails (April 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4082332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4082332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,762
RANK
132,890
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies