Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee and Classification Shifting of Earnings Management: Evidence from Sub-Sahara African Firms

ORJINTA, H.I., ONUORA, J.K.J. AND AGUBATA, N.S. (2018). Audit Committee and Classification Shifting of Earnings Management: Evidence from Sub-Sahara African Firms. Scientific Research Journal, VI(X), 62-77

16 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

S N Agubata

Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University

Date Written: April 13, 2018

Abstract

This study investigated whether managers use classification shifting to reclassify recurring expenses into non-recurring ones,placing more emphasis on the effect of audit committee in curbing such opaque manipulations. A sample of 75 quoted non-financial firms from three Sub-Sahara African countries (Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa) was used for the period of tenyears spanning 2008 to 2017. The study employed ex-post facto and cross-sectional research design in analyzing secondary data collected. Using a methodology similar to
McVay (2006) and a sample of 750 Sub-Sahara African firm-year observations, our result revealed that classification shifting is less prevalent in firms whose audit committee is characterized by more meetings, more financial expert members and more independent directors as this leads to lower levels of recurring items misclassification. Specifically, our result discovered that audit committee independence has negative and significant effect on classification shifting which was statistically significant at 10% level of significance while audit financial expertise and audit committee diligence have negative and significant effect on classification shifting at 1% and 5% levels of significance respectively. The findings showed that about 68.4% of changes in total variation in the classification shifting of earnings management can be attributed to the joint effect of all the explanatory variables while about 31.6% was unaccounted for thereby captured by stochastic error term. However, based on the following findings, we suggest that users of financial statements should take account of firms’ audit committee composition when evaluating firms’ core earnings.

Keywords: Earnings management, classification shifting, non-recurring items, audit committee

Suggested Citation:

Agubata, S N, Audit Committee and Classification Shifting of Earnings Management: Evidence from Sub-Sahara African Firms (April 13, 2018). ORJINTA, H.I., ONUORA, J.K.J. AND AGUBATA, N.S. (2018). Audit Committee and Classification Shifting of Earnings Management: Evidence from Sub-Sahara African Firms. Scientific Research Journal, VI(X), 62-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4083165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
688
RANK
289,981
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies