Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Human Rights: Evidence of Due Diligence in Eu-Listed Firms’ Reporting

51 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Michael Rogerson

University of Bath

Francesco Scarpa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Annie Snelson-Powell

University of Bath

Abstract

This paper investigates the level of human rights due diligence (HRDD) disclosure by the largest European Union-listed firms. We develop a benchmarking tool to analyse the extent of HRDD reporting as it relates to two important dimensions; a talk– and an action-orientation in disclosure. Our evaluation is performed at a key point in time when institutional expectations are building, allowing us to assess firms’ readiness for forthcoming hard-law legislation. We analyse the 2019 annual reports of the largest 100 EU-listed firms with respect to the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We find that while many firms have a talk-orientation, where they communicate a commitment to protect human rights, the extent to which disclosures are action-oriented and detail the key practice of HRDD is significantly neglected. Our analysis reveals three key types of firm response to pressures to report on human rights; a strategic avoidance, a strategic interpretation as well as the less frequently observed, strategic engagement response expected by the UNGPs.  Our findings thus contribute to what is an emerging human rights accounting literature with a novel empirical study that focuses on the nature and extent of HRDD reporting. Important implications also follow for policymakers as they enhance the capability of new regulation to enforce a strategic engagement outcome. Through enhancing the prospects for action-oriented HRDD reporting, legislation can better support the protection of human rights in the supply chains and operations of these large firms.

Keywords: human rights, non-financial reporting, accountability, social accounting

Suggested Citation:

Rogerson, Michael and Scarpa, Francesco and Snelson-Powell, Annie, Accounting for Human Rights: Evidence of Due Diligence in Eu-Listed Firms’ Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4083393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4083393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
RANK
484,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies