Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Use B Corporation Certification to Greenwash and Mask Unethical Behaviors? An Examination of Certified B Corporations’ Earnings Management Practices

45 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022 Last revised: 9 Oct 2023

Lauren Cooper

West Virginia University

Jiahui (Helen) Lu

State University of New York at New Paltz; West Virginia University - Department of Accounting and Management Information Systems

Jill Weber

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Date Written: October 5, 2023

Abstract

In this study we examine whether managers at B Corporations are likely to engage in greenwashing and mask unethical behavior within the context of the decision to manage earnings. B Corporation certification is a costly third-party corporate social responsibility (CSR) certification intended to distinguish genuine CSR firms from those engaging in greenwashing. Using a sample of professionals employed at B Corporations and non-B Corporations, we utilize a scenario-based research design to assess their likelihood of engaging in different types of earnings management. Regarding B Corporation managers’ preferences, we find that they are less likely to engage in 1) accruals earnings management than real earnings management without a CSR effect and 2) real earnings management with a negative CSR effect than real earnings management without a CSR effect. We also find that B Corporation managers are less likely to engage in 1) accruals earnings management and 2) real earnings management that has a negative CSR effect compared to non-B Corporation managers. We additionally document that the decreased importance B Corporation managers place on meeting earnings expectations mediates the negative relationship between B Corporation certification and 1) accrual earnings management and 2) real earnings management with a negative CSR effect. Overall, these findings suggest that managers at B Corporations take ethical and greenwashing considerations into account at times during their earnings management decision making process. These findings provide new insights regarding the legitimacy of B Corporations and extend our understanding of the relationship between CSR and earnings management.

Keywords: b corporation certification, corporate social responsibility, greenwashing, earnings management, accruals-based earnings management, real earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Lauren and Lu, Jiahui and Weber, Jill, Do Firms Use B Corporation Certification to Greenwash and Mask Unethical Behaviors? An Examination of Certified B Corporations’ Earnings Management Practices (October 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4084101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4084101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Lab
About B Corp certification Posted: 2023-09
Lab
About B Corps global Posted: 2023-09
Lab
Guide to B Corp Certification: Process, Requirements, & Fees Posted: 2023-09
Lab
What does the 'B' stand for and five other things you need to know about the B Corp movement Posted: 2023-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,799
RANK
183,491
2 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies