Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Internet Financial Reporting: In the Case of Ethiopian Insurance and Banking Sector Companies

Innovations 2021

Posted: 31 May 2022

Birhan Moges Adugna

Debre Tabor University

Dr. Bhupendra Kumar

Debre Tabor University

Date Written: September 13, 2021

Abstract

This research aims to examine the determinants of company’s internet financial and nonfinancial disclosure extent. Specifically, this study examined the effect of company’s profitability, leverage. age, size, business type, liquidity and ownership structure on the internet financial reporting practice. To investigate the effect of such factors, cross sectional data were used from national bank of Ethiopia and from private banks’ audited annual report. To analyze the data, both descriptive and regression analysis were used through STAT Aversion 15, and Ordinary List Squire Estimation technique was applied. The results of the OLS regression model indicate that profitability, size and ownership structure have statistically positive effects on internet financial reporting practice. On the other hand, this study result suggests that, liquidity and leverage have significant negative effects on Ethiopian banking and insurance sector companies internet financial reporting practice, however age and business types performed have insignificant positive and negative effects on the internet financial reporting practice respectively.

Keywords: Disclosure, Internet ,Financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Adugna, Birhan Moges and Kumar, Bhupendra, Determinants of Internet Financial Reporting: In the Case of Ethiopian Insurance and Banking Sector Companies (September 13, 2021). Innovations 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4085758
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
335
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies