Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do High-Quality Auditors Improve Non-GAAP Reporting?

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 25 Aug 2022

Zhuoan Feng

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University); University of Waikato

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 30, 2022

Abstract

Prior research finds that clients of high-quality auditors report higher quality GAAP earnings. We extend this research to investigate whether auditor quality is associated with the quality of voluntarily disclosed non-GAAP earnings measures. Using a sample of Australian firms disclosing annual non-GAAP metrics, we find that clients of high-quality auditors are more likely to voluntarily disclose non-GAAP earnings numbers. However, clients of high-quality auditors make adjustments in calculating non-GAAP earnings (non-GAAP exclusions) that are less predictive of future earnings and less value relevant than those of other firms. These results indicate that their adjustments are of higher quality. We also find similar results for US firms using a sample of quarterly non-GAAP earnings disclosures. Overall, our evidence indicates that commonly used indicators of audit quality for GAAP reporting are positively associated with the quality of voluntarily disclosed non-GAAP earnings measures.

Keywords: Non-GAAP disclosures, Big 4 auditors, Industry specialization

JEL Classification: J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Zhuoan and Francis, Jere R. and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., Do High-Quality Auditors Improve Non-GAAP Reporting? (March 30, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4087878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , R Sommerfeldt
Auditing non-GAAP measures: signaling more than intended
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 577 - 606 Posted: 2022
A Albrecht , J Z Chen , K K Nelson
Non-GAAP Earnings and Auditors' Going Concern Opinions. Working paper Posted: 2020
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
124,786
14 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies