Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The ESG Impact and Firms' Performance by Industries

29 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Jinghong Wu

Western University - Department of Economics

Yingting He

Western University - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 19, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure and firm performance and profitability which is measured by return on assets (ROA). We calculate the ESG score by aggregating the scores based on corporate social responsibility (CSR) data from the MSCI ESG KLD STATS (KLD) data from 1991 to 2018. We divide the total sample by industries and choose the top five industries with the most data points for further tests. We run two fixed-effect GLM regressions for the total sample and subsamples and investigate the relationship between ROA and the aggregate and decomposed ESG scores. Though the ESG scores have significant positive impacts on the performance of some firms, the impacts can vary according to industry. The governance score has the most significant positive impact on firms’ performance in the Manufacturing industry, while the environmental score has the most significant negative impact on the Mining industry.


Keywords: CSR, ESG, firm performance, firm profitability, industries

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Jinghong and He, Yingting, The ESG Impact and Firms' Performance by Industries (April 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4087755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Brogi , V Lagasio
Environmental, social, and governance and company profitability: Are financial intermediaries different? Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 26 , p. 576 - 587 Posted: 2018
X Deng , J Kang , B S Low
Corporate Social Responsibility and Stakeholder Value Maximization: Evidence from Mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , p. 87 - 109 Posted: 2013
R G Eccles , I Ioannou , G Serafeim
The Impact of Corporate Sustainability on Organizational Processes and Performance
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 11 , p. 2835 - 2857 Posted: 2014
H K Kang , S Lee , H Chang
Impacts of Positive and Negative Corporate Social Responsibility Activities on Company Performance in the Hospitality Industry
International Journal of Hospitality Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 82 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
180,190
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies