Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Prices vs. Fundamental Value: The Case for Using Discounted Cash Flow Analysis in Securities Class Actions

20 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2022

Frank Partnoy

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 18, 2022

Abstract

This article proposes discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis as a substitute for, or complement to, event studies in securities class actions. In many contexts, DCF analysis would be more consistent with the principles articulated in the Supreme Court’s decision in Goldman, as well as the academic literature. DCF analysis also could avoid many problems associated with event studies, and provide a more intuitive and precise framework for assessing both price impact and merits issues in securities cases. The central idea is to shift from the analysis of market prices to the analysis of fundamental value.

Keywords: discounted cash flow, event studies, securities class actions

JEL Classification: G2, G3, G34, K22, K41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Partnoy, Frank, Market Prices vs. Fundamental Value: The Case for Using Discounted Cash Flow Analysis in Securities Class Actions (April 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4087012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Goldman Sachs, 141 S. Ct Posted: 1961
The Court operates under the assumption that the Supreme Court meant what it said, and said what it meant
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
153,527
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies