Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Short-Termism: What the Empirical Evidence Tells Policymakers

41 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022 Last revised: 29 Apr 2022

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 19, 2022

Abstract

In corporate law policymaking, there is considerable attention to stock market short-termism. Public discourse pins some noticeable part of the blame for climate change, environmental damage, and mistreatment of stakeholders on stock market short-termism. Presidential candidates raise the issue and castigate the stock market; and it’s regularly invoked to justify securities regulation proposals and corporate case-law decisions. Here I examine the extant economic empirical work on stock market short-termism to assess whether it supports making stock market short-termism actionable in a major way for policy purposes. I evaluate it in two dimensions: first to see whether a consensus emerges from the work (none does) and second to see whether the work is conceptually structured to reveal its economy-wide severity. The latter conceptual point—the difficulty in scaling much corporate research to ascertain whether there’s an economy-wide problem—affects not just the stock market short-termism inquiry.

The typical research effort seeks to measure whether a local treatment induces more local short-termism, not whether the economy-wide impact is severe. But evaluating short-termism’s economy-wide impact is essential for policymaking; policymakers must consider whether the economy is failing to invest or cutting back on R&D because of a stock market afflicted with a truncated time horizon. Local findings (of the impact on a subset of firms with a particular characteristic, such as short-vesting stock options, rapid stock market trading, or hedge fund activism) need not scale to economy-wide results; some local results will do so only serendipitously; and, finally, there are structural reasons why for stock market short-termism one should expect economy-wide results not to match local results. More than most corporate law issues, the short-termism problem faces a high failure-to-scale hurdle.

Keywords: Short-termism, quarterly capitalism, hedge funds, shareholder activism, R&D, capex, investment, buybacks

JEL Classification: D72, E71, G18, G34, G38, G41, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J., Stock Market Short-Termism: What the Empirical Evidence Tells Policymakers (April 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4087746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Jie He , Xuan Tian
Yet firms that analysts follow more widely invest more in property, plant and equipment than weakly followed firms, and spend more on R&D as well, pointing to analysts as not inducing short-termism. François Derrien & Ambrus Kecskés, The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage
J. FIN. ECON , volume 856 Posted: 2013
Alfred Rappaport
Today, the average holding period in professionally managed funds is less than a year and annual portfolio turnover is greater than 100 percent
ANALYSTS J , volume 65 Posted: 2005
Andrew M Clearfield
With Friends Like These, Who Needs Enemies
The Structure of the Investment Industry and Its Reluctance to Exercise Governance Oversight, 13 CORP , volume 114 , p. 116 - 118 Posted: 2005
See Carl Ackermann , Richard Mcenally , David Ravenscraft
The Performance of Hedge Funds: Risk, Return, and Incentives, 54
J. FIN , volume 833 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
142,640
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies