Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employing Lesser-Known Corporate Development Strategies While Avoiding Problematic Blind Spots

Strategy & Leadership, Vol. 50, No. 3, pp. 15-20, 2022

8 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022

Joseph Calandro, Jr.

Saint Joseph's University - Haub School of Business

Date Written: April 20, 2022

Abstract

The marketplace is frequently approached via direct head-to-head competition, which tends to drives prices to “sky-high” levels. All too often the winners in competition like this suffer from the “winner’s curse,” and its corresponding negative financial consequences. There is a better way; namely, investing in areas where competition is the weakest, and preferably nonexistent, while bypassing areas where competition is the strongest. While this may sound easy to do, it is not; in fact, even when it is done well, it may not even be obvious after the fact. This kind of strategic “blind spot” has caused many executives to overlook unconventional opportunities, which other select executives have profited from. Such opportunities can appear incidental, as they are often indirect, and thus their utility is often difficult for many executives to “see” in real time. To compensate for this blind spot, some executives employ the “10th Man Rule” by having someone senior argue the “no side” of initiatives that are unanimously agreed upon and to source opportunities that are currently overlooked by conventional outlets and analyses. Like all initiatives, the 10th Man Rule requires the support of both the executive team and the Board of Directors to succeed over time. With such support over time, thoughtful unconventionally indirect strategies can help executives to achieve their profit and growth goals at minimal levels of risk in all macroeconomic environments.

Keywords: Corporate Finance, corporate strategy, mergers and acquisitions, resource utilization

JEL Classification: G11, G34, L21, L25, M21

Suggested Citation:

Calandro, Jr., Joseph and Calandro, Jr., Joseph and Calandro, Jr., Joseph, Employing Lesser-Known Corporate Development Strategies While Avoiding Problematic Blind Spots (April 20, 2022). Strategy & Leadership, Vol. 50, No. 3, pp. 15-20, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4088518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4088518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Anirban Sen , Pamela Barbaglia , Kane Wu
Global M&A activity smashes all-time records to top $5 trillion in 2021
Reuters Posted: 2021-12-20
Roger Ames
Introduction
Sun Tzu The Art of War: The First English Translation Incorporating the Recently Discovered Yin-ch'ueh-shan Texts Posted: 1993
For an enlightening discussion of how this axiom is currently, and effectively, being applied by the Chinese from a national strategy perspective see Dean Cheng
Backgrounder , volume 18 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2012
Sun Tzu
The Art of War , p. 17 - 29 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
RANK
856,579
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies