Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bloated Balance Sheets and Stock Returns: Asymmetries between Profit and Loss Firms

Economics and Business Letters, 2019, Vol.8, pp.50-58

Posted: 9 May 2022

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 9, 2019

Abstract

We study return predictability attributable to bloated balance sheets in European capital markets and find that the NOA anomaly is more severe across loss years and is significantly attenuated across profit years. A hedge trading strategy on NOA for loss firms generate large raw and abnormal returns that are almost three times higher than the respective returns for profit firms. Our evidence is more likely to be consistent with the hypothesis that low NOA firms may have superior returns relative to high NOA firms due to investors’ inability to make full use of information reported in financial statements.

Keywords: net operating assets, stock returns, profits, losses, Europe

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Bloated Balance Sheets and Stock Returns: Asymmetries between Profit and Loss Firms (February 9, 2019). Economics and Business Letters, 2019, Vol.8, pp.50-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089704
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies