Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Influence on Managerial Honesty: The Moderating Role of Earnings Position

Advances in Management Accounting

36 Pages Posted: 19 May 2022 Last revised: 20 Jun 2022

Chaoping Li

James Madison University - School of Accounting

Andrea Drake

Louisiana Tech University

Date Written: March 25, 2022

Abstract

This study uses a budgeting experiment to examine the effects of peer influence and firm earnings position on managerial honesty. In the experiment, participants report production costs to request funds from the firm based on their actual private cost information. The firm’s earnings position is manipulated at two levels, a gain condition and an edge condition, and we find that participants overstate costs (i.e., are less honest) to a greater extent in the dishonest peer influence condition than in the honest peer influence condition. We also find that the effect of peer influence on managerial honesty is context dependent. Specifically, participants respond to both dishonest and honest peer influence in the gain condition but they do not respond to peer influence in the edge condition. This study provides evidence for honest peer influence on honesty and it highlights the role of earnings position on the effect of peer influence on honesty. Controlling the disclosure of certain peer information is not possible because individuals can learn about peer information (honest or dishonest) formally or informally. Such uncontrollable peer information may be harmful to firms. Our results suggest firms that provide managers with the consequences of managerial budgeting on the firm operational outcomes can neutralize the effect of peer influence on managerial honesty when managers’ budgeting decisions significantly affect firm profits.

Keywords: budgeting, managerial honesty, peer influence, earnings position, performance, experiment

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chaoping and Drake, Andrea, Peer Influence on Managerial Honesty: The Moderating Role of Earnings Position (March 25, 2022). Advances in Management Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C Aranda , J Arellano , A Davila
Subjective bonuses and target setting in budget-based incentive contracts
Management Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 45 - 60 Posted: 2019
M Brunner , A Ostermaier
Peer influence on managerial honesty: The role of transparency and expectations
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 154 , p. 127 - 145 Posted: 2019
A Brüggen , J Luft
Capital rationing, competition, and misrepresentation in budget forecasts
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 36 , p. 399 - 411 Posted: 2011
E Cardinaels
Earnings benchmarks, information systems, and their impact on the degree of honesty in managerial reporting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 52 , p. 50 - 62 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies