Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prioritizing IT Management Issues and Business Performance

Journal of Information Systems, DOI: https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-2020-016, (Forthcoming)

Posted: 12 May 2022

J. Philipp Klaus

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Kevin Kim

University of Louisiana at Monroe

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Katia Guerra

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Leon Kappelman

College of Business, University of N. Texas

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

We use a novel dataset extracted from the Society of Information Management’s (SIM) survey of chief information officers (CIOs) and top information technology (IT) executives to examine organizations’ most critical IT management issues during 2014-2017 and their effect on firm profitability. According to the SIM surveys, the top two IT issues management prioritizes are security/cybersecurity/privacy and IT alignment with the business. We find that firms that prioritize these two IT management issues exhibit higher profitability than firms that do not. Our study contributes to the Information Systems (IS) and Accounting Information Systems (AIS) literature on IT business value by providing empirical evidence on IT-business alignment – and to some extent, IT security – positively affecting firm financial performance.

Keywords: IT management, IT-business alignment, data analytics, IT security, cybersecurity, IT business value, firm performance

JEL Classification: G32, M10, M15, O32

Suggested Citation:

Klaus, Jan Philipp and Kim, Kevin and Masli, Adi and Guerra, Katia and Kappelman, Leon, Prioritizing IT Management Issues and Business Performance (April 13, 2022). Journal of Information Systems, DOI: https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-2020-016, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089719
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies