Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Copycat Compliance and the Ironies of "Best Practice"

University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

William R. Heaston

University of Pennsylvania, The Wharton School

Date Written: April 21, 2022

Abstract

For too long, corporate compliance “best practices” have been hiding in plain sight. While they are readily invoked, compliance scholars have yet to examine them in any depth. This Comment provides a corrective, arguing that a confluence of inter- and extra-organizational forces drive many firms to engage in copycat compliance whereby they mimic other firms’ “best practice” compliance structures. This tendency reveals two potentially problematic ironies about so-called “best practices” in the corporate compliance domain. First, they tend to reflect common practices rather than practices that are, in fact, “best.” Second, a formalistic focus on copying common practices may well undercut some of the most important or “best of the best” practices in compliance management—the promotion of ethical behavior within corporations and the customization of compliance structures so that they mesh with prevailing organizational cultures. In light of these ironies, this Comment proposes a conceptual framework that may provide a basis for identifying more fruitful types of convergence on common compliance best practices. Such best practices would trade rote mimicry for a more functional approach that permits greater variation in compliance structures and processes to suit the particular operational, cultural, and ethical needs of implementing firms.

Keywords: Corporate Compliance, Corporate Governance, Best Practices, Convergence, Isomorphism

Suggested Citation:

Heaston, William R., Copycat Compliance and the Ironies of "Best Practice" (April 21, 2022). University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Ann Mary , Gadziala
The Vital Role of Effective Comprehensive Compliance Controls at Broker-Dealers Posted: 2004-02-04
Bill Ide
Moving Beyond Quality , volume 29 Posted: 2011-06
See Sean , J Griffith , W M Mary , L Rev
American corporate governance has undergone a quiet revolution , volume 57 Posted: 2016
Geoffrey Parsons Miller
Compliance . . . is coming of age as a field of legal practice, as a subject taught in law schools, and as a field of research and analysis by academics and thoughtful practitioners
Compliance: Past, Present and Future, 48 U. TOL. L. REV , volume 437 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
724,439
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies