Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Approach to Sustainability Accounting Practices and Financial Performance of Aviation Companies in Nigeria: A Conceptual Model

Society & Sustainability 4(1), 2022

18 Pages Posted: 17 May 2022

Uchenna Okafor

University of Uyo (UNIUYO)

Date Written: April 01, 2022

Abstract

Considering the significance of environmental and social hazards alongside the inevitable economic importance of the aviation industry, the researcher examined the general impact of the ethical approach to environmental and social Sustainability Accounting Practices (SAP) on their performance in Nigeria. Due to a lack of financial data in the public domain of Nigeria’s aviation industry to empirically measure performance indices, the researcher adopted an exploratory research design in combination with an integrative conceptual and a practical case review as alternative analytical models. The case result and majority of findings among reviewed researches conducted in other countries did not only support a positive association between sustainability accounting practices and financial performance of aviation companies but also demonstrated a significant influence of the ethical dimension of SAP in such nexus. Drawing from the results of reviewed studies and findings from case analysis, therefore, the researcher hypothetically concluded that a positive association exists between SAP and financial performance in Nigeria's aviation industry. However, the researcher further attributed the scarcity of relevant financial data for empirical analysis to a poor listing of aviation companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), especially the domestic airlines. In addition to developing a hypothetical background and raising research questions for future empirical investigation, it was recommended among other things that aviation companies in Nigeria should exploit the ethical dimension of corporate social responsibility as a practical strategy for entrenching their "going concern" objective in a long-term good corporate financial outlook.

Keywords: Aviation Industry, sustainability accounting practices, corporate social responsibility disclosure, sustainability reporting, social and environmental sustainability

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Uchenna, Ethical Approach to Sustainability Accounting Practices and Financial Performance of Aviation Companies in Nigeria: A Conceptual Model (April 01, 2022). Society & Sustainability 4(1), 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
583
RANK
396,898
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies