Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on Divestment Motives: An Overview

Global Trade and Customs Journal Volume 17, Issue 11/12 (2022) pp. 501 – 514

15 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022 Last revised: 22 Jan 2023

Linus Nyiwul

Gettysburg College - Department of Economics

Badar Alam Iqbal

Independent

Date Written: February 22, 2022

Abstract

Corporate divestiture represents an important component of a firm’s strategy. Divestment takes different forms and is usually undertaken for a variety of general and firm-specific reasons. The objective of this paper is to provide an overview and assessment of the current consensus on the empirical evidence on underlying divestiture motives. What is the direction of the literature on the antecedents of divestment? Are there important lessons to be learned from dominant and underexplored themes? We embark on the answers to these questions by analyzing the existing empirical literature and providing an informative and instructive synopsis. Our synopsis contributes to the literature by integrating antecedents of divestiture from the multiple strands and synthesizing potentially rich areas of further exploration in the literature. Performance remains the dominant factor in divestiture but there is strong evidence that divestment is the result of a multitude of interacting dynamics among various factors. There remain considerable opportunities in the literature on the economics of divestiture, emerging ESG and its theoretical underpinnings and the general divestment theory.

Keywords: Divestment, Divestiture, Industrial Organization, Portfolio Management, Strategic Management, Foreign Investment, Mergers and Acquisitions, ESG

JEL Classification: D22, F23, F30, G32, G34, L25, M12

Suggested Citation:

Nyiwul, Linus and Iqbal, Badar Alam, Evidence on Divestment Motives: An Overview (February 22, 2022). Global Trade and Customs Journal Volume 17, Issue 11/12 (2022) pp. 501 – 514, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
819
RANK
334,632
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies