Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of ownership structure on external audit quality: A comparative study between Egypt and Saudi Arabia”

15 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Hossam Sharawi Hassan

Independent

Date Written: April 22, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to compare the impact of the ownership structure as one of the essential internal mechanisms of governance on the proxies of external audit quality on a sample of 82 listed Egyptian companies and 77 listed Saudi companies from 2014 to 2021, employing the OLS regression analysis. The current study found mixed results according to the type of ownership and indicators of the external audit quality, both in Egyptian and Saudi companies. The results showed a significant effect of board ownership, management ownership, and family ownership on audit quality. However, the direction of this effect varied between positive or negative in Egyptian or Saudi companies, and the effect was sometimes insignificant. On the contrary, the results showed an insignificant effect of government ownership on audit quality in Egyptian and Saudi companies, or the effect was sometimes significant. The study results may help investors and stakeholders understand the ownership structure’s role as one of the internal governance mechanisms on audit quality. Studies show the effectiveness of governance mechanisms, whether internal or external, according to the institutional environment from one country to another. It also contributes to the use of various indicators to measure the quality of auditing and the quality of financial reports, such as returning the financial statements as an indicator of financial reports and an indicator of audit quality at the same time.


Keywords: ownership structure, audit fees, Big 4, restatement, specialization, external audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Hossam Sharawi, The impact of ownership structure on external audit quality: A comparative study between Egypt and Saudi Arabia” (April 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4090674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Akhidime
Board structure, corporate characteristics and audit quality of Nigeria banks
International Journal of Economics, Commerce and Management , issue 6 , p. 832 - 846 Posted: 2015
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
A H Al-Rassas , H Kamardin
Earnings quality and audit attribute in high concentrated ownership market. Corporate Governance Posted: 2016
Asharq Al Awsat Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
RANK
791,953
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies