Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership, Governance, Management and Firm Performance: Evidence from Italian Firms

Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 678

39 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2022

Audinga Baltrunaite

Bank of Italy

Sara Formai

Bank of Italy

Andrea Linarello

Bank of Italy

Sauro Mocetti

Bank of Italy

Date Written: March 16, 2022

Abstract

We explore the role of ownership, governance and management characteristics as potential drivers of the performance gaps between firms located in the Centre and North and in the South of Italy. First, we document that southern firms are characterized by more frequent family ownership and a higher fraction of local and family directors on the board. Moreover, entrepreneurs and managers of southern firms have lower education levels and are less inclined to adopt structured managerial practices and advanced technology. Second, we examine to what extent these differences account for the performance gap between the two areas. We find that managers’ human capital explains one tenth of the difference in firm size, while family ownership accounts for one tenth of the differences in productivity. Although the analysis is purely descriptive, our findings suggest that ownership, governance and management play a significant role in explaining firm performance and account for a non-negligible fraction of the North-South divide.

Keywords: ownership, family firms, corporate governance, managerial practices, human capital, firm size, productivity, technology

JEL Classification: G30, L20, M10

Suggested Citation:

Baltrunaite, Audinga and Formai, Sara and Linarello, Andrea and Mocetti, Sauro, Ownership, Governance, Management and Firm Performance: Evidence from Italian Firms (March 16, 2022). Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 678, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4090769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D Acemoglu , M Dell , R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
Productivity Differences between and within Countries , volume 2 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
P Arcidiacono
Ability Sorting and the Returns to College Major
Journal of Econometrics , volume 121 , p. 343 - 375 Posted: 2004
G Alves , P Blanchard , G Burdin , M Chávez , A Dean
Like Principal, Like Agent? Managerial Preferences in Employee-Owned Firms
Journal of Institutional Economics , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2021
A Baltrunaite , G Bovini , S Mocetti ; Baltrunaite , A , E Brodi , S Mocetti , O Bandiera , L Guiso , A Prat , R Sadun , A Baltrunaite , E Karmaziene
Assetti Proprietari e di Governance delle Imprese Italiane: Nuove Evidenze e Effetti sulla Performance delle Imprese, Bank of Italy
Matching Firms, Managers, and Incentives , volume 514 , p. 623 - 681 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
354,044
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Italy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies