Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosure, ESG, and Green FinTech in the Energy Industry

16 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Joseph Lee

School of Law, University of Manchester

Alberto Mattia Serafin

University of Cassino

Date Written: April 22, 2022

Abstract

We examine how corporate reporting regimes can facilitate technology-enabled green financing to achieve sustainable development goals. To this end, we evaluate through a comparative analysis, whether an ‘E’ (i.e. environmental) disclosure should be mandatory, voluntary, or hybrid, and identify the normative and economic bases for the chosen model. We also explore the issue of ‘materiality’ in reporting and the rationale for removing the distinction between financial and non-financial information in the forthcoming EU directive. Furthermore, we discuss how such information facilitates greentech development (or sustainalytics), which can incentivise the energy industry to achieve the net-zero target and mobilise financial market participants in this joint global initiative. Lastly, we investigate different modes of enforcement mechanism and how the current enforcement arrangements may be affected by the new EU directive. We find that the European Union’s hybrid model can facilitate the development of data analytics to achieve the sustainable goals. Policy recommendations are provided.


Keywords: EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, ESG, Materiality, Data Analytics, Blockchain, Green Fintech, Energy Industry

JEL Classification: K22, K32, F18, F64, G3, K23, Q34

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Joseph and Mattia Serafin, Alberto, Corporate Disclosure, ESG, and Green FinTech in the Energy Industry (April 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4090792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
and-natural-resources-sector-business-crime-risks-and-remedies#.YdXoGi1abq0
Special Report, Financier Worldwide Posted: 2022-04
Europol
Knowledge Product: Organised Crime & Energy Supply. Scenarios to Posted: 2020-01
But for the removal of this distinction, and for the consequent «financialization» of all information, see infra
For «insight» remarks, see also Peter Wollmert and Andrew Hobbs, 'How the EU's New Sustainability Directive Will Be a Game Changer
A first comment in Katrin Hummel and Dominik Jobst Posted: 2021-04
Load more
4 Citations
Pradeep Kumar Dadabada
Analyzing the Impact of ESG Integration and FinTech Innovations on Green Finance: A Comparative Case Studies Approach
Journal of the Knowledge Economy , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 7959 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Maximilian Nowak , Josef Baumüller , Ruben Hetfleisch , Sebastian Schlund , Stephan Martineau
Decarbonizing Value Chains
, p. 46 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Amina Toumi , Khakan Najaf , Mohamed M. Dhiaf , Ng Shir Li , Shenba Kanagasabapathy
The role of Fintech firms’ sustainability during the COVID-19 period
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 30 , issue 20 , p. 58855 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Khakan Najaf , Alice Chin , Adrian Lean Wan Fook , Mohamed M. Dhiaf , Kaveh Asiaei
Fintech and corporate governance: at times of financial crisis
Electronic Commerce Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 605 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,677
RANK
105,158
4 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies