Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate failure in the UK: An examination of corporate governance reforms

International Review of Financial Analysis, 2022

52 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Mohamed Elsayed

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Yousry Ahmed

University of Bristol; Zagazig University

Date Written: April 22, 2022

Abstract

[enter Abstract BodyIn the context of major corporate collapses, executive compensation, board network, gender diversity and oversight committees have all received attention in a package of corporate governance (CG) reforms that were recently issued in the UK. This paper examines whether these reforms of CG can influence the likelihood of corporate failure (CF). It also investigates how efficient they are when CF approaches. After controlling for variables that prior research shows to be related to CF, we find that CF is less likely when a firm is characterized by a lower executive compensation, larger size of the board’s social network, and smaller degree of the board’s managerial network. However, board gender diversity and independence of oversight committees do not reduce the likelihood of CF. We further observe that the explanatory power of these CG variables is significant but relatively decreased as the time to CF closes. This implies that despite the capability of these variables to render early warning alerts of CF, they are less helpful (efficient) as failure becomes closer. Our results remain robust after a battery of sensitivity tests and addressing potential endogeneity problems. Collectively, the evidence provided by our paper should be of interest to the UK’s regulatory bodies (Financial Reporting Council) and legislators (the UK’s Parliament), since it shows the practical implications of the UK’s CG Code and other governance regulations on reducing future corporate collapses. This paper provides timely evidence-based insights to major recent structural reforms aiming at proposing remedies to CG problems in the UK.

Keywords: Executive compensations, Board network, Gender diversity, Oversight committees, Financial distress, Bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G33, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Mohamed and Elshandidy, Tamer and Ahmed, Yousry, Corporate failure in the UK: An examination of corporate governance reforms (April 22, 2022). International Review of Financial Analysis, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
FRC criticises tick box mentality to Corporate Governance Code
References Accountancy Daily Posted: 2020
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Arye Bebchuk , L Fried , J M
Executive compensation as an agency problem
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
4 Citations
shadi hani , Mohammad Khaleq NEWAZ
Board Effectiveness and Firm Performance
· 39 Pages · Posted: 19 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 9
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yousry Ahmed , Mohamed Elsayed , Bin Xu
Bankruptcy in the UK: Do Managers Talk the Talk before Walking the Walk?
British Journal of Management, Forthcoming · 65 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 51
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Emad Noureldeen , Mohamed Elsayed , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Jianming Ye
Two-tier Board Characteristics and Expanded Audit Reporting: Evidence From China
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pei Chu , Mohamed Elsayed , Yousry Ahmed
Do Women in the Boardroom Influence Foreign Acquisitions’ Premium and Outcomes? Evidence from China
International Journal of Finance & Economics, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 41
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,316
RANK
214,562
4 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies