Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Systematic Review of Sustainable Corporate Governance of SMEs: Conceptualisation and Propositions

Akomea-Frimpong, I., Asogwa, I. E., & Tenakwah, E. J. (2022). Systematic Review of Sustainable Corporate Governance of SMEs: Conceptualisation and Propositions. Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(3), 74–91. https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv19i3art5

18 Pages Posted: 2 May 2022

Isaac Akomea-Frimpong

Western Sydney University

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

Recent global events anc actions toward climate change have heightened the urgency of sustainability in all aspects of life. However, few studies exist on the incorporation of sustainability principles into the corporate governance practices of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). This study aims to review the current state of the literature on the incorporation of sustainability principles in corporate governance practices of SMEs, validate the outcomes and set future research agenda. This research was conducted using a systematic literature review (SLR). Findings suggest female executives, board size, firm size, board diversity, board independence and ownership concentration are the dominant themes in sustainable corporate governance (SCG) of small businesses. Studies are predominately conducted in the European context with some studies in Asia and North America while studies in Africa and South America are limited. The study showed that corporate governance models of SMEs have excluded pertinent issues such as climate change, digitization, and racial equality. Although the study concentrated on limited but highly relevant literature, the results establish the basis for further studies and enhance debates on sustainable models for corporate governance practices of SMEs. Compared to existing studies, the outcomes of this study emphasise the need to prioritise sustainability-inspired research of SMEs and provide solutions to integrate sustainable practices in small businesses. The study offers a guiding framework for managers and policy makers to promote progressive and sustainable practices in managing SMEs.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Literature Review, Small Businesses, Sustainability, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: M00, M10, M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Akomea-Frimpong, Isaac, Systematic Review of Sustainable Corporate Governance of SMEs: Conceptualisation and Propositions (April 13, 2022). Akomea-Frimpong, I., Asogwa, I. E., & Tenakwah, E. J. (2022). Systematic Review of Sustainable Corporate Governance of SMEs: Conceptualisation and Propositions. Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(3), 74–91. https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv19i3art5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4091121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
J Abor , C K D Adjasi
Corporate governance and the small and medium enterprises sector: Theory and implications
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 2007
J Abor , N Biekpe
Corporate governance, ownership structure and performance of SMEs in Ghana: Implications for financing opportunities
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 300 Posted: 2007
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for ‗harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2021
G A Afrifa , V Tauringana
Corporate governance and performance of UK listed small and medium enterprises
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 719 - 733 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
RANK
185,725
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies