Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Choices and the Actual Stakes of Stakeholder Governance

TLI Think!Paper 3/2022

23 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2022

Peer C. Zumbansen

McGill University, Faculty of Law; King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law

Date Written: April 28, 2022

Abstract

Already long before the 2019 Business Roundtable’s call to rethink the ‘purpose’ of the corporation, corporate law has been a forum for competing interests. The current debate around ‘the promise of stakeholder governance’ marks another important moment in the century+ long effort to understand the nature of the business corporation, its place in society and the role of law. In order to grasp the scope of the nexus between the corporation and law, it is helpful to acknowledge the rising substantive pressure and expectations regarding CSR, ESG and DEI today but also the changing regulatory map of how corporate governance norms are produced locally and transnationally, by public and private actors. What emerges is not a Utopia but a fresh perspective and a number of new prospects on a more sustainable economic system and the place of the business corporation – and its manifold stakeholders – in it.

Keywords: Corporate Purpose, Business Roundtable, Stakeholder Governance, COVID, ESG, CSR, supply chain governance, modern slavery legislation, labor rights, platform economy, transnational corporate governance, comparative corporate governance, Bebchuk, Kovvali

Suggested Citation:

Zumbansen, Peer C., Corporate Governance Choices and the Actual Stakes of Stakeholder Governance (April 28, 2022). TLI Think!Paper 3/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4092148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4092148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Marina Welker , Damani J Partridge , Rebecca Hardin
Corporate Lives: New Perspectives on the Social Life of the Corporate Form , volume 52 Posted: 2011
Brishen Rogers
Democracy in the firm and the Workplace Posted: 2019-10-01
P M Vasudev
Beyond Shareholder Value -A Framework for Stakeholder Governance
P Michael , Fogarty
Company and Corporation Reform and Worker Participation: The State of the Debate
BRITISH JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
RANK
173,507
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies