Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Customer Firm Data Breaches on the Audit Fees of Their Suppliers

51 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2022

Yimei Zhang

Montana State University - Bozeman - College of Business

Thomas Joseph Smith

University of South Florida

Abstract

This study investigates how customer firms’ data breaches can affect their suppliers' audit fees within the supply chain relationship. Based on the economic bond that exists through the customer firms’ and supplier firms' supply chains, we examine whether data breach incidents of customer firms are positively associated with their suppliers' audit fees. Consistent with the customer breaches increasing the audit risk to the supplier, we observe a positive association between disclosures of customer firm breaches and audit fees of the supplier. We further find that this association exists for both internal and external data breaches. We conduct two additional tests to provide additional evidence that the supply chain relationship drives our observed association. First, we find that the association varies predictably based on the strength of the underlying supply chain relationship. Second, we find that audit fees are higher when more customers disclose breaches in the supply chain in a given year. Interestingly, we find that while supplier auditors appear to price the risks associated with customer breaches, the breaches do not appear to increase audit delay or affect audit quality. The findings of this study are timely and relevant to academics, practitioners, and regulators.

Keywords: Data Breach, Supply Chain Relationship, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yimei and Smith, Thomas Joseph, The Impact of Customer Firm Data Breaches on the Audit Fees of Their Suppliers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4093289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4093289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2020a. SOC for Supply Chains Backgrounder
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2020c. Appendix B: Comparison of SOC for Supply Chain, SOC 2, and SOC for Cybersecurity Examinations and Related Reports
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
E I Altman
A complete guide to predicting, avoiding, and dealing with bankruptcy Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
299,785
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies