Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Tax Planning: Does CSR/Tax Payment Orientation Matter?

Aronmwan, E. J., & Igbinoba, O. O. (2021). Corporate social responsibility and corporate tax planning: Does CSR/tax payment orientation matter? International Journal of Intellectual Discourse, 4(1), 120-135

16 Pages Posted: 2 May 2022

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin

Omena Igbinoba

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 16, 2021

Abstract

This study provides empirical evidence on the relationship between corporate social responsibility and tax planning. In line with the reasoning of Davis et al.(2016) and Mao (2019), firms were divided into two groups based on the connection between their level of corporate social responsibility and tax payments. Corporate social responsibility was measured using the amount of donation by a company while tax planning was measured using the cash flow effective tax rate (ETR). Using the Pooled Ordinary Least Squares regression technique and a sample of 364 firm-year observations, the study found on one hand that there is a significant negative relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporate tax planning (CTP) among firms with CSR/tax payment substitute orientation. On the other hand, a significant negative relationship was also discovered to exist between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporate tax planning (CTP) among firms with CSR/tax payment complement orientation. The study, therefore, concludes that a firm’s CSR/tax payment orientation matters and should be considered by policymakers and regulatory agencies when making fiscal policies. The study recommends that tax authorities that want to positively shape the orientation of taxpayers should ensure that the inefficiencies in converting tax revenue to social welfare are addressed.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility; tax planning; effective tax rate; tax payment orientation; tax avoidance.

Suggested Citation:

Aronmwan, Edosa and Igbinoba, Omena, Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Tax Planning: Does CSR/Tax Payment Orientation Matter? (September 16, 2021). Aronmwan, E. J., & Igbinoba, O. O. (2021). Corporate social responsibility and corporate tax planning: Does CSR/tax payment orientation matter? International Journal of Intellectual Discourse, 4(1), 120-135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4093019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
K Aliani
Does corporate governance affect tax planning? Evidence from American companies
International Journal of Advanced Research , volume 1 , issue 10 , p. 864 - 873 Posted: 2013
J Alm
What motivates tax compliance?
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
M Amidu , T O Kwakye , S Harvey , S M Yorke
Do firms manage earnings and avoid tax for corporate social responsibility
Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 11 - 27 Posted: 2016
H A Annuar , I A Salihu , S N Obid
Corporate ownership, governance and tax avoidance: An interactive effect , volume 163 , p. 150 - 160 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
749
RANK
344,140
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies