Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lobbying, Benefits and Costs of Staying Ahead of the Curve

86 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022 Last revised: 1 Jun 2022

Cosmin Cioanta

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: September 15, 2021

Abstract

Using all bill lobbying observations from the United States Congress during 2005-2019, this paper investigates how the combination of a lobbying firm’s attitude, need, and visibility, defined by ex-ante political sentiment, political risk, and count of lobbied bills, impacts political risk mitigation, taxation, investor uncertainty, innovation, corporate governance quality, and fund flows. The combination of political risk exposure and sentiment creates four categories of firms for likely lobbying: Proactive, Reactive, Natural, and Ignorant. Proactives are optimistic towards lobbying with low need to lobby to address political risk, Reactives are less optimistic towards lobbying with an increased need, Naturals have high need and sentiment, and Ignorants have low need and sentiment. I find that lobbying can reduce political risk exposures, decrease investor uncertainty, improve effective tax rates, and hurt corporate governance ratings. Additionally, past lobbying actions can either provide experience that helps, or draw unwanted political attention to the firm.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Lobbying, Political Risk, Taxation, Innovation, Risk

JEL Classification: G11, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Cioanta, Cosmin, Lobbying, Benefits and Costs of Staying Ahead of the Curve (September 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4093105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4093105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M Adelino , S Dinc
Corporate Distress and Lobbying: Evidence from the Stimulus Act
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 114 , issue 2 , p. 256 - 272 Posted: 2014
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Do Some Outside Directors Play a Political Role?
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
R K Aggarwal , F Meschke , T Y Wang
Corporate political donations: investment or agency
Business and Politics Posted: 2012
R Alexander , S Scholz , S Mazza
Measuring Rates of Return for Lobbying Expenditures: an Empirical Analysis under the American Jobs Creation Act
Journal of Law and Politics , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 401 - 457 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
464,511
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies