Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MTN: Unlocking Value While Driving Socioeconomic Progress

HBS Case No. 722-371

Posted: 26 Jun 2022

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Pippa Tubman Armerding

HBS Africa Research Center

Dilyana Karadzhova Botha

HBS Africa Research Center

Date Written: February 21, 2022

Abstract

On March 10, 2021, Ralph Mupita, the new CEO of Africa’s largest telecommunications company, presented the group's 2020 annual results and unveiled a new strategy to "drive growth and unlock value." Despite MTN's leadership position in most of the 21 markets in which it operated, the company's share price was trading at 15-year lows putting Mupita under pressure to design and implement a turnaround. The new strategy he and his team have created contemplates spinning off The firm’s fintech business as a way to highlight value imbedded in the company but not recognized in its stock price. It also entails doing more to create shared value in each of its markets. But these were just two of the four key priorities. The strategy also called for building valuable technology platforms and delivering industry-leading connectivity. Could MTN's leadership team achieve all four priorities within five years as promised, or were they trying to do too much too quickly? Did they have the right goals, timing, and team in place to do succeed? Although Mupita was convinced that swift action and dramatic change were needed to succeed, there were skeptics both inside and outside the firm.

The goal of this case is to explore one firm's attempt to achieve both purpose and profit (drive socioeconomic progress and unlock shareholder value). It also allows students to explore the process of strategy formulation and strategy execution, and to assess MTN’s new corporate strategy. Does the new CEO have the right strategy and is it going to work? What factors make it likely to succeed, or not?

Keywords: Strategy, Corporate Strategy, Strategy Formulation, CEO, Leadership, ESG, Society, Value Creation, Valuation, Telecommunications, FinTech, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Africa

JEL Classification: L1, L21, L96, M14, O4

Suggested Citation:

Esty, Benjamin C. and Armerding, Pippa Tubman and Botha, Dilyana Karadzhova, MTN: Unlocking Value While Driving Socioeconomic Progress (February 21, 2022). HBS Case No. 722-371, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4093837
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
533
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Leadership Educator: Courses, Cases & Teaching eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies