Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance: International Evidence

IESE Business School Working Paper

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

63 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022 Last revised: 23 Mar 2023

Shira Cohen

San Diego State University

Igor Kadach

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Stefan J. Reichelstein

Stanford University - Stanford Graduate School of Business; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 5 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 23, 2023

Abstract

Using a wide sample of international publicly traded firms, this paper studies the rapidly increasing practice of incorporating ESG metrics in executive compensation contracts. Our evidence suggests that this compensation practice varies at the country, industry, and firm level in ways that are consistent with efficient incentive contracting. We also observe that reliance on ESG metrics in executive compensation arrangements is associated with engagement, voting, and trading by institutional investors, which suggests that firms could be adopting this practice to align their management’s objectives with the preferences of certain shareholder groups. Finally, we find that the adoption of ESG Pay is accompanied by improvements in key ESG outcomes, but not by improvements in financial performance.

Keywords: ESG metrics, Executive compensation, Institutional ownership

JEL Classification: M12, M41, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Shira and Kadach, Igor and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Reichelstein, Stefan J., Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance: International Evidence (March 23, 2023). IESE Business School Working Paper, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4094283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4094283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
D Amiram , I Gavious , C Jin , X Li
The economic consequences of firms' commitment to ESG policies Posted: 2021
M Atif , M Hossain , S Alam , M Goergen
Does board gender diversity affect renewable energy consumption
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
2 Citations
Atar Derj , Adil Bami , Slimane Ed-Dafali , Zahra Adardour
Intersecting Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, and Long-Term Value Creation
, p. 35 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Maria Roszkowska‐Menkes
ESG pay and corporate social irresponsibility: Does culture matter?
Business Ethics, the Environment & Responsibility , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 1860 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,991
RANK
5,959
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies