Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emission Taxes and Capital Investments: The Role of Tax Incidence

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 83

55 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022 Last revised: 12 Feb 2024

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Kira Zerwer

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: February 10, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines investment responses to emission taxes and the role of tax incidence in passing on tax burdens. Using private firms from Spain and the introduction of an emission tax in 2013 in the Autonomous Community Valenciana, we show that investments decline in response to the emission tax. Importantly, this investment decline does not depend on the level of pollution but on economic factors related to tax incidence. Investments in firms operating in highly competitive markets, firms with low pricing power, and firms with low financial flexibility are the most affected by environmental taxes. We generalize the investment findings using the introduction of carbon taxes in France and Ireland in a stacked difference-in-differences design. Overall, our results indicate that emission taxes affect not only polluters but also other firms and stakeholders such as suppliers, customers, and consumers depending on the relative elasticities of supply and demand.

Keywords: Environmental taxation, corporate investment

JEL Classification: H22, H23, H32, G31

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Martin and Zerwer, Kira, Emission Taxes and Capital Investments: The Role of Tax Incidence (February 10, 2024). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 83, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4094069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4094069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,039
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,530
RANK
49,717
6 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies