Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Experiences Financial Reporting Pressure?

72 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Oded Rozenbaum

George Washington University - School of Business

Kyle Welch

George Washington University; George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 26, 2022

Abstract

Prior studies show that senior managers (i.e., CEO, CFO, and board members) face financial and vocational pressure to meet earnings expectations, but relatively little is known about how financial reporting pressure impacts the average employee. Using employee satisfaction ratings from Glassdoor.com, we find that, compared with firms facing low financial reporting pressure, firms facing high pressure experience a decrease in employee satisfaction ratings in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. These results suggest that managers transmit financial reporting pressure to employees at the end of the year as the pressure to meet annual earnings benchmarks increases. When we partition the sample on employee characteristics, results suggest that non-managerial employees and those with shorter tenure have increased dissatisfaction in periods of financial reporting pressure. When we split the sample on firm characteristics, we observe a more significant decrease in employee satisfaction ratings at firms with nonunionized employment and fewer employee benefits. Finally, we find that employee satisfaction is positively associated with future job applications, indicating that financial reporting pressure may limit firms’ access to human capital.

Keywords: Earnings expectations, reporting pressure, real activities earnings management, employee satisfaction, Glassdoor

JEL Classification: M1, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Yuan and Rozenbaum, Oded and Welch, Kyle, Who Experiences Financial Reporting Pressure? (April 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4094290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4094290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
R P Baghai , R C Silva , V Thell , V Vig
Talent in distressed firms: Investigating the labor costs of financial distress
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 6 , p. 2907 - 2961 Posted: 2021
A Benson , A Sojourner , A Umyarov
Can reputation discipline the gig economy? Experimental evidence from an online labor market
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 5 , p. 1783 - 2290 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
185,154
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies