Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'CorE' Dynamics of Corporate Soft-Regulation Compliance: Theory and Evidence from an Emerging Market

65 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022 Last revised: 22 Jan 2024

Álvaro E. Bustos

Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile

Eduardo Walker

School of Business Administration - Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile

Date Written: June 06, 2024

Abstract

We introduce the first micro-founded model describing the evolution of compliance with corporate governance practices regulated by comply or explain ('CorE') standards. We show that a practice's compliance level evolves as a diffusion process determined by a mimicking effect and a pressure to comply effect. The diffusion process converges to the practice's efficacy at preventing losses associated with value-destroying events. Estimations using Chilean data reveal that efficacy and expected losses differ by practices' categories. We emphasize the explanatory, predictive and normative reach of our theory. For instance, the model explains why the most managerially beneficial practices are not necessarily the most complied with (for Chile, average risk management compliance levels are below 54%). The model predicts the compliance level's required time to converge to its steady state (for Chile, more than 30 years). It also estimates the benefits of a 'CorE' compliance system when compared to a mandatory compliance system (for Chile, utility would increase up to 30%). We conclude discussing how stakeholders and regulators can shape compliance levels.

Keywords: G38, G34, K22 Corporate soft-regulation, comply or explain, dynamics of compliance, corporate practices, diffusion process, compliance dispersion, firms and regulators, Chile

JEL Classification: G38, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bustos, Álvaro E. and Walker, Eduardo, The 'CorE' Dynamics of Corporate Soft-Regulation Compliance: Theory and Evidence from an Emerging Market (June 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4095421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4095421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
E Abrahamson , L Rosenkopf
When do bandwagon diffusions roll? How far do they go? and when do they roll backwards: A computer simulation , p. 155 - 159 Posted: 1990
E Abrahamson , L Rosenkopf
Institutional and competitive bandwagons: Using mathematical modeling as a tool to explore innovation diffusion
Academy of Management Review , volume 18 , p. 487 - 517 Posted: 1993
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
D Akkermans , H Van Ees , N Hermes , R Hooghiemstra , G Van Der Laan , T Postma , A Van Witteloostuijn
Corporate governance in the Netherlands: An overview of the application of the Tabaksblat code in 2004
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1106 - 1118 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
605,468
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies