Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
People and Investor Attention to Climate Change

36 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Mauro Aliano

University of Ferrara

Franco Fiordelisi

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Giuseppe Galloppo

Università degli studi della Tuscia

Viktoriia Paimanova

University of Rome Tor Vergata

Date Written: April 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper empirically studies whether people and investors globally really see climate change as a major threat, as defined by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Our identification strategy aims to investigate two research questions: (1) whether people attention to Climate Change varies depending on local natural disasters and (2) how does the climate change attention affect the stock price of local firms and, thus, the investors’ trading behavior. With Google Search Volume Index considered as a tool to evaluate the attention parameter, from one side, we evaluated the attitude of common people towards climate-related natural disasters, which got statistically significant in the continuous time of 10 years rather than in more recent time, and from another side, we analyzed investors sentiment towards sustainable stocks (ESG). Our analysis for the sample of 2941 stocks in G20 countries during 2006-2019 revealed that investor attention to climate change drives them to cause a significantly positive effect on returns of stocks with high ESG score compared to low sustainable stocks, in terms of ESG score itself and its separate pillars. These results are robust to several additional risk factor models and also when considering environmental policy stringency framework and sin industries.



Keywords: climate change, ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, public attention, stock returns

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G18

Suggested Citation:

Aliano, Mauro and Fiordelisi, Franco and Galloppo, Giuseppe and Paimanova, Viktoriia, People and Investor Attention to Climate Change (April 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4095001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4095001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
151,887
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Environmental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies