Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Effects of the 13f Disclosure Rule on Institutional Investors

340 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022 Last revised: 5 May 2022

David Kwon

Yale School of Management

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

The 13f rule, which requires institutions to disclose mainly stock investments, has recently generated significant debate about disclosure costs. Some have expressed concern that copycatting (and frontrunning) activities from outside investors can harm disclosing investors' returns, while others argue that copycatting is non-existent due to the 13f reporting delay, and that even if copycatting did exist, it would benefit disclosing investors' returns. Do copycats harm disclosing investors? In this dissertation, which is divided into three chapters, I provide a comprehensive analysis of the 13f rule and examine whether and how copycats affect copied investors' returns. First, I find that due to the narrow definition of the rule, mainly stock investors (who comprise about 15% of institutional assets) must disclose on 13fs and so mainly stock investors are exposed to potential copycats. The 13f rule thus creates a differential disclosure environment among institutional investors simply based on the instruments they use; a small-cap value manager discloses all of its portfolio (assuming it meets the 13f threshold), while a global macro hedge fund that uses only derivatives can keep its portfolio secret. Next, I find that a subset of stock investors – long-term stock investors – are the primary target of copycats due to lower replication risk. Top-performing long-term stock investors, including hedge funds and pension funds, face significant positive market reactions to disclosures of newly purchased stock, while top-performing short-term stock investors do not see positive market reactions. Lastly, I find that long-term investors do not benefit from the market reactions caused by outside copycats and can even be harmed. Since copycats cause long-term stock investors to experience excess volatility in their returns without higher returns, my study suggests that long-term stock investors are being harmed on a risk-adjusted return basis under the 13f rule and aims to inform regulators as they consider expanding the rule.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, 13f rule, copycatting, investor behavior

JEL Classification: G4, G14, G18, G23

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, David, The Differential Effects of the 13f Disclosure Rule on Institutional Investors (May 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4095482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4095482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Assuming that it meets the $100 million threshold 6 Calculated using regulatory AUM of $223 billion taken from Bridgewater's Form ADV filed on 7/9/2021 and $15.6 billion in 13f securities taken from its
Barth
In my analysis, I include only hedge funds that achieved top quintile excess return performance over a rolling 3-year period for at least 2 years during their sample period (thus, these are likely to be targets of copycats at some point), and had at least five years of 13f filings during the 1999 -June 2019 period (filing dates only became available starting in 1999). 112 I consider copycatted stocks to be those holdings in the top quintile of 2-day market reactions to initial disclosure of the stock purchase among all the stock holdings of each manager during the sample period. Although I did not find evidence of market reactions to disclosures by short-term hedge funds in my event study section, I 112 I also require that for each portfolio return calculation (for example, long-term hedge funds' copycatted stock performance), there are at least 3 stocks in the median quarter. Also, I only include stock disclosures that were filed outside of a t-2
suggest that investors and other stakeholders find the information contained in 13fs valuable, and that exempting institutions from filing 13fs would "deprive the market of this information Posted: 2020
V Agarwal , W Jiang , Y Tang , B Yang
Uncovering Hedge Fund Skill from the Portfolio Holdings They Hide
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 739 - 783 Posted: 2013
V Agarwal , K A Mullaly , Y Tang , B Yang
Mandatory Portfolio Disclosure, Stock Liquidity, and Mutual Fund Performance
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,375
RANK
102,108
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies