Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Corruption Culture and Audit Quality: The Conditioning Effect of the Competitive Position of the Incumbent Auditor

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2022, 59: 1133-1171

Posted: 19 May 2022 Last revised: 1 Dec 2022

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Viet Tuan Pham

Susquehanna University, Sigmund Weis School of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: April 28, 2022

Abstract

Prior research suggests that corporate corruption culture captures an audit client’s general attitude towards opportunistic behavior. In this paper, we examine whether the relation between client corruption culture and audit quality is attenuated or exacerbated by the competitive position of the incumbent auditor in the local audit market. We find that the incumbent auditor’s weak competitive position in the local audit market exacerbates the negative effects of client corruption culture on audit quality. By the same token, we show that the incumbent auditor’s strong competitive position in the local audit market attenuates the adverse audit quality effects associated with client corruption culture. Our findings speak to the interplay between client corruption culture and the competitive position of the incumbent auditor in US local audit markets and is of potential interest to regulators concerned about the impact of client corruption culture and audit market competition on audit quality.

Keywords: client corruption culture, audit quality, competitive position of incumbent auditor, discretionary accruals, financial misstatements, internal control audit opinion shopping

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Pham, Viet Tuan and Raman, K. K., Client Corruption Culture and Audit Quality: The Conditioning Effect of the Competitive Position of the Incumbent Auditor (April 28, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2022, 59: 1133-1171, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4096342
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies