Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Special Issue: Corporate Sustainability and Stakeholder Management in Tourism and Hospitality

Posted: 24 May 2022

Mark Anthony Camilleri

University of Malta

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

This special issue offers a comprehensive guide to academia and to practitioners on corporate responsible behaviors in tourism and hospitality. It comprises discursive papers and review articles that provide an excellent overview of the eclectic literature in this promising area of research.

Moreover, it presents empirical studies that clarify how savvy hospitality enterprises are capable of embedding strategic CSR and environmental management initiatives that will ultimately add value to stakeholders and to their business. In sum, these five contributions suggest that there is more to CSR than publicity stunts and cause-related marketing. They imply that there is scope for tourism and hospitality businesses to look after their employees, to build stronger relationships with suppliers, with local communities where they operate their business, as well as with regulatory stakeholders. This way, they will be in a better position to prove their licence to operate and to improve their legitimacy in society, whilst doing well, in economic terms. This discourse is very relevant today, now more than ever before; in the context of a resilient tourism industry, that is slowly but surely emerging from an unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic situation.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, strategic CSR, stakeholder theory, editorial, stakeholder management

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M16

Suggested Citation:

Camilleri, Mark, Special Issue: Corporate Sustainability and Stakeholder Management in Tourism and Hospitality (October 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4097939
 Not Available for Download
12 References
T M Arun , S Srivastava , A Ferraris , A Dhir
Corporate social responsibility and Sustainability in Tourism Sector. A Systematic Literature Review and Future Outlook Posted: 2021
M A Camilleri
Valuing stakeholder engagement and sustainability reporting
Corporate Reputation Review , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 222 Posted: 2015
M A Camilleri
The circular economy's closed loop and product service systems for sustainable development: A review and appraisal
Sustainable Development , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 536 Posted: 2019
M A Camilleri
Strategic attributions of corporate social responsibility and environmental management: doing well by doing good Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies