Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Green: The Governance Role of Environmental Regulations on Firm Innovation and Value

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-163

50 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Grace Fan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Xi Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: April 12, 2022

Abstract

We study the governance role of EPA regulations in disciplining and incentivizing firms' environmental strategies by examining their overall effect on corporate innovation and valuation. Using the universe of EPA enacted rules and a difference-in-differences approach exploiting large changes in the restrictions of EPA regulations at the industry level, we find that stricter EPA regulations not only reduce pollution but also increase firm innovation, especially green innovation. Moreover, stricter EPA regulations, especially innovation-related ones, are associated with an improvement in firm value, and the positive valuation effect is stronger for firms subject to higher threats of weak corporate governance and managerial myopia. Our results suggest that properly designed environmental regulations can serve as an external governance mechanism and benefit firms by overcoming inefficiencies in internal governance.

Keywords: Environmental Regulation, EPA, Firms, Valuation, Innovation

JEL Classification: K32, L51, M41, O31

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Grace and Wu, Xi, Going Green: The Governance Role of Environmental Regulations on Firm Innovation and Value (April 12, 2022). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-163, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4098403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Corporate governance, competition policy and industrial policy
European Economic Review , volume 41 , p. 797 - 805 Posted: 1997
A M Allen , M F Lewis-Western , K Valentine
The innovation and reporting consequences of financial regulation for young life-cycle firms
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2021
S Ambec , M A Cohen , S Elgie , P Lanoie
The porter hypothesis at 20: Can environmental regulation enhance innovation and competitiveness?
Review of Environmental Economics & Policy , volume 7 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
879
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,220
RANK
62,547
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies