Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizon Problems in the Implementation of Bank Reporting Regulation: Evidence from China

Accepted, Review of Accounting Studies

55 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Yi Ru

Renmin University of China - Business School

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Lynn Linghuan Wang

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: July 27, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the role of politicians’ horizon incentives in banks’ response to the adoption of a forward-looking provisioning model. We argue that horizon incentives, defined as the tendency of politicians to focus on short-term performance in the late stage of an official term, motivate banks to use the discretion of provisioning to obfuscate the reporting system. Using the mandatory shift to the expected credit loss model in China, we find that the increases in the magnitudes and timeliness of loan loss provisions following the mandatory shift are smaller for state-owned banks with late-term local governors than other state-owned banks. Further, while the mandatory shift reduces the pro-cyclicality of lending during the COVID-19 recession for state-owned banks without late-term governors prior to the recession, it has little impact on state-owned banks with late-term governors prior to the recession. Overall, our findings suggest that politicians’ horizon incentives lead to opportunistic underreporting of provisions and dampen the effectiveness of financial reporting regulation in reducing lending pro-cyclicality.

Keywords: expected credit loss, horizon problem, loan loss recognition, political incentive

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Mingyi and Ru, Yi and She, Guoman and Wang, Lynn Linghuan, Horizon Problems in the Implementation of Bank Reporting Regulation: Evidence from China (July 27, 2023). Accepted, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4098566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
F Allen , J Q Qian , X Gu
An overview of China's financial system
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 9 , p. 191 - 231 Posted: 2017
M Andrews
State-owned banks, stability, privatization, and growth: Practical policy decisions in a world without empirical proof Posted: 2005
China Bank
Global banking industry outlook Posted: 2022-07-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,371
RANK
131,230
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies