Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Audit Process Failures: Unethical Practices and Business Demise.

Business, Management and Economics Research Vol. 8, Issue 1, pp: 1-11, 2022

11 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022

John Ugoani

Rhema Univeristy, Nigeria.

Grace Iyi Ibeenwo

Akanu Ibiam Federal Polytechnic Unwana

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

The primary aim of external auditing is for the independent auditor to comply with authoritative ethical standards in checking and verifying the authenticity of already recorded transactions and thereafter expressing an opinion as to whether the published financial statements and reports were made in all material aspects in accordance with ethical and relevant accounting and financial reporting standards and regulations. By reporting and expressing an opinion the independent auditor helps to establish public confidence and credibility over the financial statements and reports, even though such must not be interpreted as assurance regarding the future sustainability of the enterprise or with regard to the economy, efficiency, or effectiveness of management. The external audit specifically relates to the independent examination of the financial statements of an enterprise by an external auditor appointed by the shareholders. Even though the external auditor may perform the same audit procedures as in the case of the internal auditor, unlike the internal auditor, the external auditor does not report to the board and management but to the shareholders. The external audit is, therefore, important for strengthening transparency and accountability to key external stakeholders in the management of all organizations. External audit as a recognized watchdog mechanism is expected to have probing eyes on the financial statements and reports of the company as a measure of promoting corporate governance and enterprise sustainability. All forms of fraud-sheltering and accounts manipulation by external auditors in collusion with top management of individual companies are unethical and undermine the concept of audit independence; and an invitation to business demise. 230 respondents participated in this study conducted through the exploratory research design, and the result showed a strong relationship between audit process failures and business demise. A recommendation of this report is that the board and management should always ensure to implement credible external auditors’ recommendations as to measures of reducing cases of inefficiency, fraud, and business demise.

Keywords: Ethical standards; Adelphia scandal; Material misstatements; Financial statements and reporting; Board and management; Independent examination

JEL Classification: M10, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ugoani, John and Ibeenwo, Grace Iyi, External Audit Process Failures: Unethical Practices and Business Demise. (May 2, 2022). Business, Management and Economics Research Vol. 8, Issue 1, pp: 1-11, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M J Abdolmohammed , W J Read , K Agare
Corporate governance factors associated within financial fraud
Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2010
M Abdu , E Aziz , R Kassen
Fraudulent financial reporting: Do real flags really help?
Journal of Economics and Engineering , volume 4 , p. 69 - 79 Posted: 2010
M Abdullahi , O Enyinnaya , S Ahunanya
Transparency in corporate governance: A comparative study of enron, USA, and Cadbury Plc
Nigeria. The Social Sciences , volume 5 , issue 6 , p. 471 - 476 Posted: 2010
S B Adeyemi
Bank failure in nigeria: A consequence of capital inadequacy, lack of transparency and nonperforming loans. Banks and Bank Systems , volume 6 , p. 99 - 109 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,118
RANK
58,738
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies