Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Limits of Empirical Studies on Hedge Fund Activism

29 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 17 Dec 2022

Bamdad Attaran

DLA Piper (Canada) LLP; University of Ottawa; Michigan State University, College of Law

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

The debate over the division of powers between shareholders and corporate boards is central to the academic literature on corporate governance. In recent years, a wave of empirical studies engaged in this debate by focusing on the case study of hedge funds. Scholars rely on these studies to conclusively advocate for a board-power model of corporate governance. This article offers a critical assessment of the four most cited empirical studies on hedge fund activism. There is no doubt that these studies provide significant insights into the debate over the division of powers. However, they are not conclusive, nor do they put an end to the debate. This article reviews in chronological order the empirical studies on hedge fund activism. It identifies the inherent limitations found in each study, caused by the adopted assumptions. The existence of these limitations raises concerns about over-reliance on empirical studies focused on a narrow case study.

Keywords: Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, Board Power Model, Shareholder Power Model

Suggested Citation:

Attaran, Bamdad, The Limits of Empirical Studies on Hedge Fund Activism (January 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4098146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Stout
Posted: 2013
Ibid
Ibid
Vasudev
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
448,944
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies