Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corroboration Role of Management Earnings Forecasts in Private Loan Markets

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance. 2024, Volume 39, Issue 3, pp. 903-930.

48 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Xinghua Gao

Washington State University

Yonghong Jia

Iowa State University

Nicholas Krupa

Clemson University

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

Management earnings forecasts (MEFs) may reduce information risk by corroborating the inferences that lenders draw from their private communication with borrowers. Consistent with this idea, we find that among firms with a general policy of issuing MEFs, those providing MEFs in the six months before loan origination with a forecast horizon beyond the origination date enjoy lower loan spreads. The frequency and precision of MEFs are also negatively associated with loan spreads. The associations are stronger when lenders' need for corroboration of their private information is expected to be greater. The associations are not driven by a firm’s general information environment, signaling of managerial ability, opportunistic disclosure, or competition between public and private debt markets. Moreover, the issuance, frequency, and precision of MEFs are associated with loan amounts more spread out among participating lenders, suggesting that MEFs also reduce information asymmetry within a loan syndicate. Our study provides insight into the corroboration role of publicly disseminated MEFs in private loan markets.

Keywords: debt contracting, corroboration, voluntary disclosure, management earnings forecasts

JEL Classification: M4, M2, G3, D82, G21

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Xinghua and Jia, Yonghong and Krupa, Nicholas and Tucker, Jennifer, The Corroboration Role of Management Earnings Forecasts in Private Loan Markets (May 2, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance. 2024, Volume 39, Issue 3, pp. 903-930., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How much new information is there in earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
684
RANK
511,510
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies