Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Level 3 fair value transfers: The impact of oversight and incentives on the reclassification decision

52 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro

Villanova University - Accountancy

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we evaluate the decision by U.S. commercial banks to transfer fair value assets into Level 3 classification from Level 2. SFAS 157 (ASC 820) requires the disclosure of any transfer of assets from Level 2 to Level 3. We consider the role of the bank’s oversight environment (e.g., board risk committee and auditor) as well as the financial reporting incentives, including capital and earnings management incentives on the decision to transfer. Using a sample of 1,768 bank-year observations, we find (1) the presence of a risk committee and (2) risk committee characteristics such as stronger oversight, active meetings, and risk experts to be positively associated with the transfer decision. Conversely, banks with auditors that are considered industry experts are less likely to transfer assets to Level 3. We also find that consistent with capital management incentives, a lower level of bank’s tier one capital ratio is positively associated with the decision to transfer assets into Level 3 classification. In terms of earnings management incentives, we document that those banks with upcoming mergers and public debt issuance activities and with larger discretionary loan loss provisions are more likely to transfer their assets into Level 3. Taken together, our results provide evidence that the decision to transfer assets into Level 3 is determined by oversight such as risk committee and auditor specialists, as well as capital and earnings management incentives. Our paper is among the first to consider the role of the risk committee in financial reporting and disclosure decisions. As enterprise risk management considerations become a larger component of bank’s operating activities, improving our understanding of the role of the risk committee in considering financial reporting risks is increasingly more beneficial.

Keywords: fair value transfer, risk committee, capital management, earnings management, auditor

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Altamuro, Jennifer Lynne M. and Chen, Lucy Huajing, Level 3 fair value transfers: The impact of oversight and incentives on the reclassification decision (April 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D G Deboskey , W Jiang
Earnings management and auditor specialization in the postsox era: An examination of the banking industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 613 - 623 Posted: 2012
Deloitte
Determining whether a Market is Not Active and a Transaction is Not Distressed Posted: 2009
Deloitte
Risk Committees Posted: 2012
Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
545,411
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies