Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of ESG Performance and Preferences on U.S. Corporate Bond Prices

41 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Lukas Handler

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Rainer Jankowitsch

WU (Vienna University of Economics and Business); Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF)

Alex Pasler

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 3, 2022

Abstract

We study the effects of ESG performance and preferences on the U.S. corporate bond market. Consistent with the theory, we show that firms with superior ESG scores benefit from lower yields and improved liquidity. In addition, we reveal a time-varying effect of ESG performance induced by a changing demand of investors for ESG securities. The effect on yields for firms with higher ESG performance in times of higher ESG preferences is up to 25 bp. Furthermore, we divide a firm's ESG performance into its underlying pillars E, S, and G, finding that the results are mainly driven by environmental concerns. Overall, our results provide evidence for theoretical models based on non-pecuniary utility benefits for ESG investors.

Keywords: ESG, corporate bonds, bond pricing, liquidity

JEL Classification: G11, G12

Suggested Citation:

Handler, Lukas and Jankowitsch, Rainer and Pasler, Alexander, The Effects of ESG Performance and Preferences on U.S. Corporate Bond Prices (May 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
H Amiraslani , K Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of esg performance
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2021
M Baker , D Bergstresser , G Serafeim , J Wurgler
Financing the response to climate change: The pricing and ownership of us green bonds Posted: 2018
R Bauer , D Hann
Corporate environmental management and credit risk
SSRN 1660470 Posted: 2010
F Berg , J F Kölbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of esg ratings Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
159,379
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies