Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Default Risk Mitigation: The Moderating Role of the Legal Context

Finance Contrôle Stratégie, 25(1), 1–34 (2022) https://doi.org/10.4000/fcs.8784

Posted: 24 May 2022

Mohamad H. Shahrour

Université Côte d'Azur, IAE Nice, GRM

Isabelle Girerd-Potin

Université Grenoble Alpes

Ollivier Taramasco

Independent

Date Written: May 3, 2022

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on default risk in various institutional contexts. Using CSR scores and credit ratings for 1,153 firms from 45 countries, we find that CSR reduces the firm default risk level and that the effect is stronger in civil law countries, particularly German and Scandinavian law countries, than in common law countries. The environment component of CSR appears to have the highest impact on default risk. The results, Which may prove useful to firms in their fight for survival, are robust using various measures and classifications.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, firm default risk, credit ratings, legal origins, stakeholder-oriented

JEL Classification: G33, M14, K15

Suggested Citation:

Shahrour, Mohamad H. and Girerd-Potin, Isabelle and Taramasco, Ollivier, Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Default Risk Mitigation: The Moderating Role of the Legal Context (May 3, 2022). Finance Contrôle Stratégie, 25(1), 1–34 (2022) https://doi.org/10.4000/fcs.8784, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099482
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
347
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies