Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Insider Trading

The Journal of Financial Research

76 Pages Posted: 17 May 2022 Last revised: 10 Mar 2023

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Robert C. Nash

Wake Forest University

He (Helen) Wang

West Virginia University - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 3, 2022

Abstract

In this article, we examine the effects of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on insider trading. Two hypotheses predict that EPU is positively related to insider trading volume and profitability: (1) the private benefits hypothesis, which states that insiders exploit their information advantage to realize abnormal profits, and (2) the signaling hypothesis, which states that insiders trade to signal private information to stock market participants. We find that EPU is positively and significantly related to the profitability of insider purchases, and that insiders purchase more frequently during high-EPU periods. Additional analysis provides strong support for the signaling hypothesis but no support for the private benefits hypothesis.

Keywords: Insider trading, economic policy uncertainty, corporate governance, signaling

JEL Classification: D8, G14, G38

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Nash, Robert C. and Wang, He, Economic Policy Uncertainty and Insider Trading (May 3, 2022). The Journal of Financial Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
327,219
8 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies