Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Liability in Canadian Tax Law: Critically Analyzing the Due Diligence Standard

(2022) UBC Law Review 55:3.

32 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 21 Mar 2023

Samuel Singer

University of Ottawa - Common Law Section

Monica Cheng

Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

In Canadian tax law, directors may face liability for a corporation's failure to withhold or remit certain tax and payroll amounts. To escape liability, directors can invoke the due diligence defence by demonstrating that they acted with the care, diligence, and skill of a "reasonably prudent person" in similar circumstances. In 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in Peoples Department Stores Inc (Trustee of) v Wise that the due diligence defence for directors is an objective standard and subjective motivations are irrelevant. In 2011, the Federal Court of Appeal found that the objective standard also applied to the due diligence defence in tax law. This article studies directors' liability cases in Canadian tax law after Buckingham and identifies inconsistency and fairness concerns about the treatment of a director's personal and socioeconomic circumstances. The statutory due diligence test requires the consideration of a director’s actions in reference to what a reasonable person would do in “comparable circumstances”. Drawing from critical legal scholarship about the "reasonable person" and critical tax theory, the article argues that the due diligence inquiry requires a critical and contextual approach that accounts for a director's personal and socioeconomic context, including direct and systemic discrimination.

Keywords: Canadian Tax Law, Directors' Liability, Due Diligence Defence, Reasonable Person

Suggested Citation:

Singer, Samuel and Cheng, Monica, Directors’ Liability in Canadian Tax Law: Critically Analyzing the Due Diligence Standard (May 2, 2022). (2022) UBC Law Review 55:3., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
application of section 227.1(3) of the Income Tax Act, supra note 1)
See Excise Tax Act, supra note 1, s 225
See Canada Pension Plan, supra note 1, s 21.1
See Employment Insurance Act, supra note 1, s , volume 82
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
302,262
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies