Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Financial Affiliates in Tax Avoidance by Business Groups: Evidence from Korea

39 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Haerin Shim

College of Business and Economics, Hanyang Unversity

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether financial affiliates within a nonfinancial business group perform certain roles and functions in tax avoidance by other nonfinancial affiliates or the group as a whole. Financial institutions have tax-planning expertise and knowledge and thus may assist other affiliates of the same group in avoiding taxes. In addition, regulatory loopholes leave scope for tax avoidance involving financial affiliates. Results using firm- and group-level measures show that business groups with financial affiliates (or their member firms) exhibit higher levels of tax avoidance than those without financial affiliates (or their member firms). In addition, I provide some evidence that KFTC-designated business groups subject to tighter regulation engage more in tax avoidance by utilizing financial affiliates in the blind spots of regulation and oversight, and that related-party transactions (i.e., intra-group transactions) are used as avenues for financial affiliates to help other affiliates in tax avoidance. This study is one of the first empirical studies to shed light on the role of financial affiliates of nonfinancial groups in tax planning.

Keywords: tax avoidance, effective tax rates, financial institution, business group, regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Shim, Haerin, The Role of Financial Affiliates in Tax Avoidance by Business Groups: Evidence from Korea (June 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Altman , Y H Eom , D W Kim
Failure prediction : Evidence from Korea
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 6 , p. 230 - 249 Posted: 1995
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value-relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: Evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Congyue Xu , Xianwei Liu , Meini Han
Does Integrity Culture Reduce Tax Avoidance? Evidence from China
JIAAT-D-24-00202 · 24 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
RANK
517,938
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies