Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of strategic tools in the process of financial security management of industrial enterprises in Ukraine

European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 2(13 (116), 15–23. doi:10.15587/1729-4061.2022.254234

9 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022

Pavlo Pronoza

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Tаtyana Kuzenko

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Nataliіa Sablina

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Date Written: April 28, 2022

Abstract

The results reported in this paper proved the need to develop strategic measures of the financial security management of enterprises. Approaches to understanding the essence of "management" and "financial security of an enterprise" concepts were analyzed; the author's vision of the essence of "management of the financial security of an enterprise" concept was generalized. Trends in the development of industrial enterprises were studied in order to identify the main indicators that determine the safety level of enterprises in the industry. Strategic directions in the financial security management of industrial enterprises were investigated. It was established that the construction of a regression model would allow an enterprise management to track the effect of deterministic factors on a change in the level of financial security of the enterprise and adjust the process of making managerial decisions related to the financial security of the enterprise. Given this, it became possible to build a tree of goals, which grouped and divided the strategic measures to manage the financial security of an enterprise. A strategic map was built, which reflected the relationship of all the processes at an enterprise and contributes to improving the level of management of the financial security of the enterprise. An expert study into the search for an optimal approach ensuring the financial security of an enterprise was conducted. It is confirmed that in order to improve the level of financial security management of an enterprise, it is necessary to optimize the trade and technological process in order to obtain maximum profit in the future, which could improve the state of all elements of the financial security management system of an enterprise. Thus, there is reason to assert that it is appropriate to define the strategic directions for managing the financial security of industrial enterprises by using regression and hierarchy models

Keywords: financial security management of the enterprise, regression model, hierarchy method, strategic map

Suggested Citation:

Pronoza, Pavlo and Kuzenko, Tаtyana and Sablina, Nataliіa, Implementation of strategic tools in the process of financial security management of industrial enterprises in Ukraine (April 28, 2022). European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 2(13 (116), 15–23. doi:10.15587/1729-4061.2022.254234, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4100749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Stratehiya bezpeky Ukrainy vid 14 veresnia 2020 roku No. 392 Posted: 2020
N Nosan , S Nazarenko
Financial security management in economic security systems at different levels of management systems: methodological problems. Financial and Credit Activity: Problems of Theory and Practice , volume 6 , p. 138 - 146 Posted: 2022
N Hrynyuk , L Dokiienko , О Nakonechna , І Kreidych
Financial stability as a financial security indicator of an enterprise. Financial and Credit Activity: Problems of Theory and Practice , volume 4 , p. 228 - 240 Posted: 2021
V Franchuk , O Omelchuk , S Melnyk , M Kelman , O Mykytyuk
Identification the ways of counteraction of the threats to the financial security of high-tech enterprises
Business: Theory and Practice , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Larysa Dokiienko , Nataliya Hrynyuk , Igor Britchenko , Viktor Trynchuk , Valentyna Levchenko
Determinants of Enterprise’s Financial Security
Quantitative Finance and Economics | Volume 8, Issue 1, 52–74, 2024, · 23 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
RANK
826,677
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economic Anthropology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies