Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Overload? An Empirical Analysis of the Increasing SEC Filing Volumes and the Information Environment

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4100666

Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Yaqin Hu

McMaster University

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

The volume of firms’ SEC filings has increased considerably in the last two decades. We document significant implications of this increase for the corporate information environment. Using a 2004 SEC regulation on 8-K filings as a shock to SEC filing volume, we show that 8-K filing volume increases analyst forecast dispersion after the regulation. In particular, 8-K filings newly required by the regulation increase both absolute analyst forecast error and analyst forecast dispersion. Further analyses uncover a nonlinear relation between 8-K filing volume and analyst forecast dispersion. We find similar results when we examine all SEC filings or use alternative measures of the information environment. Our results suggest an important cost associated with the increasing SEC filing requirements, shedding light on the information overload effect that the SEC itself has been concerned about and has recently attempted to address.

Keywords: Form 8-K, SEC filing, analyst forecast, information environment, information overload

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yaqin and Zhang, Yuan, Information Overload? An Empirical Analysis of the Increasing SEC Filing Volumes and the Information Environment (March 1, 2018). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4100666, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4100666
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
653
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies