Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are All Cause Contributions Created Equal? Operational and Competitive Implications of Transactional and Non-Transactional Cause Marketing 

44 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022 Last revised: 11 Dec 2024

Arian Aflaki

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Esther Gal‐Or

University of Pittsburgh

Mike Gordon

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Jennifer Shang

University of Pittsburgh

Date Written: July 11, 2024

Abstract

In Cause Marketing (CM), a firm invests in a cause to attract prosocial customers. CM investments (donations) can be broadly categorized as Transactional CM (T-CM), where donations are linked to sales revenue, and Non-Transactional CM (N-CM), where donations are independent of customer purchases. We explore these CM types and examine the impact of CM choice under competition on firms, consumers, nonprofits, and society. Two vertically and horizontally differentiated firms choose prices, type of CM, and donation levels to maximize profit. We find that T-CM and N-CM differ structurally. Unlike N-CM, T-CM donations are immune to competition intensity. This unique characteristic of T-CM allows it to serve as a commitment mechanism to mitigate price and donation competition and ultimately benefit firms. However, in equilibrium, firms may opt for N-CM, resulting in a suboptimal outcome for all stakeholders resembling the prisoner's dilemma. Additionally, we show that the mere presence of CM choice can lead to decisions detrimental to all stakeholders. Therefore, planners should tailor strategies toward each CM type. For example, nonprofits can coordinate partnerships with multiple firms in competitive markets. Social planners can also treat different CM types distinctly to benefit all stakeholders.

Keywords: Cause Marketing, Pricing, Competition, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Aflaki, Arian and Gal‐Or, Esther and Gordon, Mike and Shang, Jennifer, Are All Cause Contributions Created Equal? Operational and Competitive Implications of Transactional and Non-Transactional Cause Marketing  (July 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4101541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Agrawal , Vishal , L Toktay , Beril
Interdisciplinarity in closed-loop supply chain management research. Closed-loop supply chains: New developments to improve the sustainability of business practices , volume 4 Posted: 2010
Gad Allon , Awi Federgruen
Service competition with general queueing facilities
Operations Research , volume 56 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
James Andreoni
Giving with impure altruism: Applications to charity and Ricardian equivalence
Journal of political Economy , volume 97 , issue 6 Posted: 1989
James Andreoni , A Payne , Abigail
Is crowding out due entirely to fundraising? Evidence from a panel of charities
Journal of public Economics , volume 95 , issue 5-6 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,216
RANK
282,907
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies