Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case Against a Special Regime for Intragroup Transactions

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 641/2022

European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 22 Mar 2023

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Sergio Gilotta

University of Bologna - Department of Legal Studies

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

Corporate groups with minority shareholders in one or more subsidiaries are common around the world, despite the risks such arrangements pose to those shareholders. Shaping a firm as a web of formally independent, minority-co-owned legal entities facilitates controllers’ diversion of corporate wealth (tunnelling) via intragroup transactions and other non-transactional techniques. While many jurisdictions leave the regulation of intragroup transactions to ordinary remedies against self-dealing, others (mostly in Europe) establish a special regime centred on a relaxation of directors’ fiduciary duties. Under this special regime, subsidiary directors are not liable if they make disadvantageous decisions that are beneficial to other entities within their group, provided that proper compensation is offered (or, according to some proposals, may reasonably be expected to be offered) to the subsidiary. This paper conducts a qualitative cost-benefit analysis of this special regime, focusing on the European Model Companies Act’s rules on intragroup transactions. We concede that such rules have the advantage of reducing contracting costs and enhancing managerial flexibility within the corporate group, relative to systems governed by ordinary corporate law rules against unfair self-dealing. However, we also show that those benefits can be expected to be very limited. Furthermore, we show that this special regime substantially reduces minority shareholder protection against tunnelling, by making it much harder for minority shareholders to recover damages from controllers’ unfair self-dealing. Overall, our analysis suggests that, for groups with minority shareholders at the subsidiary level, this regime should be implemented as an opt-in arrangement, if at all. Even in that form, it should be adopted together with adequate protections for shareholders dissenting from the midstream resolution to opt into the regime.

Keywords: Comparative Corporate Law, Corporate Governance, Corporate Groups, Related-Party Transactions, Director Duties

JEL Classification: G3, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Enriques, Luca and Gilotta, Sergio, The Case Against a Special Regime for Intragroup Transactions (May 1, 2022). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 641/2022, European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4101546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
the group rather than in the commercial interests of the said subsidiary' 58 should not be considered
See AktG, § 311, para
Tröger
Posted: 2015
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,345
RANK
166,639
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies