Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Surprise, Litigation Risk and Management’s Use of Forward-Looking Statements

Posted: 17 May 2022

Vernon Mah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tejshree Kala

Australian National University (ANU)

Marvin Wee

Australian National University (ANU); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of earnings surprises and litigation risk on the use and content of forward-looking statements in firms’ press releases. Our results show that firms releasing unfavorable news that are lower than expectations provide more non-forecast-like (i.e., other) forward-looking statements that refer to projections of the firm’s future plans and outlooks. The findings show that the increase is with statements that are mostly qualitative in nature and do not refer explicitly to earnings. While the risk of litigation increases the use of other forward-looking statements but not forecast-like statements, the risk of litigation reduces the disclosure of both types of forward-looking statements by firms with bad news. Our analysis of the content of other forward-looking statements shows firms with unfavorable news use less uncertain tone, more complex words, and refer more to the firms’ innovations. We find that litigation risk is associated with an increase in the discussion of innovation but has no significant effect on the net tone and the use of complex or uncertain words.

Keywords: earnings surprise, forward-looking statements, textual analysis, tone, unfavorable news, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mah, Vernon and Kala, Tejshree and Wee, Marvin and Wee, Marvin, Earnings Surprise, Litigation Risk and Management’s Use of Forward-Looking Statements (May 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101097
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies