Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cybersecurity Incident Classification Integrating the Perspectives of Perpetrators and Target Companies

29 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022

Núbio Vidal

Escola de Economia e Gestão - Universidade do Minho; INESC TEC

Nazaré Rego

NIPE - Centre for Research in Economics and Management, Universidade do Minho; Escola de Economia e Gestão - Universidade do Minho

João Claro

Universidade do Porto - Faculdade de Engenharia; INESC TEC

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

All companies and supply chains will undergo cybersecurity incidents, and public companies, in particular, are attractive targets for perpetrators. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is currently recommending rules for disclosing these events, but after a material cybersecurity incident, organizations will finetune the information disclosure level to avoid creating roadmaps for future events. This study proposes a bottom-up classification for cybersecurity incidents that integrates the perspectives of perpetrators and targeted companies and considers such a roadmap dilemma. We applied direct content analysis to the filings of approximately 1,100 companies in the SEC’s EDGAR database to create a dataset with 102 material cybersecurity incidents spanning the last decade (2011-2021). Latent Class Analysis was applied to classify these events, proposing four descriptive classes. Public companies usually disclose the selected variables, which are strongly associated with the company sector. Our classification could be beneficially integrated within enhanced future SEC disclosure rules, and it assists public companies with peer experience in addressing the roadmap dilemma.

Keywords: roadmap dilemma, incident disclosure, cybersecurity incident management, public companies, supply chains, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), cyber-resilience

JEL Classification: M15, K22, G38, C14, C81

Suggested Citation:

Vidal, Núbio and Rego, Nazaré and Claro, João, A Cybersecurity Incident Classification Integrating the Perspectives of Perpetrators and Target Companies (May 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4101510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
I Agrafiotis , J R C Nurse , M Goldsmith , S Creese , D Upton
A taxonomy of cyber-harms: Defining the impacts of cyber-attacks and understanding how they propagate
Journal of Cybersecurity , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2018
B Arief , M A Adzmi , Bin , T Gross
Understanding Cybercrime from Its Stakeholders' Perspectives: Part 1--Attackers. IEEE Security & Privacy , volume 13 , p. 71 - 76 Posted: 2015
B Arief , M A Bin Adzmi
Understanding Cybercrime from Its Stakeholders' Perspectives: Part 2--Defenders and Victims
IEEE Security & Privacy , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 84 - 88 Posted: 2015
J Boyens , A Smith , N Bartol , K Winkler , A Holbrook , M Fallon
Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
401,016
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies