Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Incentives for Managerial Innovation

28 Pages Posted: 7 May 2022

Gino Loyola

University of Chile

Yolanda Portilla

Universidad Santo Tomas

Abstract

An agency model is proposed that identifies the optimal executive compensation scheme for a business where the owner's delegation of investment decision-making to the manager gives rise to a two-dimensional moral hazard problem relating to the levels of managerial effort and innovation, respectively. The optimal executive compensation structure is shown to depend on which of the two moral hazard dimensions predominates, thus accounting for the coexistence in the real-world of bonus-like plans with different convexity degrees and risk-reward schemes. The model also identifies the conditions under which the efficient investment policy involves high innovation, highlighting the role played by the delegation of investment decisions in the coexistence of high-tech and more traditional industries.

Keywords: corporate governance, agency problem, innovation, executive compensation, investment policy

Suggested Citation:

Loyola, Gino and Portilla, Yolanda, Optimal Incentives for Managerial Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4102969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4102969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales , B , C Casamatta , L Biggersta¤ , B Blank , B Goldie
The implementation of special attributes of CEO compensation contracts around M&A transactions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 985 - 1011 Posted: 1999
B D Cadman , J L Campbell , S Klasa ; Chen , Y R , C R Chen , C K Chu
Are ex ante CEO severance pay contracts consistent with e¢ cient contracting?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 290 Posted: 2014
C Cheng
Executive incentive, ownership concentration and corporate R&D innovation strategy: empirical evidence based on the moderating e¤ect of panel data of listed manufacturing companies , volume 32 , p. 118 - 125 Posted: 2018
J L Coles , N , D Daniel , L Naveen ; Core , J , W Guay ; Core , J , W Guay , E , D Petmezas ; Cui , L , L Feng
Career concerns, executive pay-performance sensitivity and corporate innovation: from the perspective of new CEO
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 142 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
287
RANK
906,046
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies