Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability-Linked Loan Contracting

55 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 17 Aug 2023

Richard Carrizosa

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relevance of sustainability-linked features in bank lending. Using a comprehensive sample of sustainability-linked loan (SLL) contracts originating in the U.S., we document: (1) SLL performance-related incentives are associated with borrowers' sustainability performance and controversies, ESG reporting quality and whether these reports are audited, and the inclusion of a sustainability agent, (2) predictable variations in SLL contract requirements pertaining to the measurement, reporting and auditing of borrowers' sustainability performance, (3) factors associated with variation in the disclosure of performance incentives within SLL contracts, and (4) positive associations between several SLL incentive and reporting terms and changes in borrowers' sustainability performance subsequent to the origination of the loans. Overall, our evidence suggests that some sustainability-linked loans are designed to provide incentives to borrowers to improve their sustainability performance, although we also find some evidence consistent with greenwashing concerns.

Keywords: Syndicated loans, sustainability, ESG, performance pricing, auditor

JEL Classification: G21, G32, M14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Carrizosa, Richard and Ghosh, Al (Aloke), Sustainability-Linked Loan Contracting (August 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4103883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4103883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,886
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,221
RANK
20,462
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies