Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Total Quality Management and Corporate Governance to Improving Performance Cooperative Managers

15 Pages Posted: 26 May 2022

David Pangaribuan

Bhayangkara Jakarta Raya University

Date Written: May 9, 2022

Abstract

Purpose this study is to empirically examine effect role Total Quality Management, Corporate Governance on performance of cooperative managers. Research approach is a quantitative method and sampling technique using convenience sampling, Collecting data using a questionnaire. Hypothesis testing shows results: TQM and Corporate governance have a positive effect on the performance of cooperative managers and TQM has a positive effect on Corporate governance. TQM and Corporate governance provide guidelines, knowledge and awareness of the importance of product quality, service and resources in managing cooperatives. Quality must be an organizational cultureto continuously improved provides direction and focus on efforts to achieve goals

Keywords: Total Quality Management, Corporate Governance, Cooperative Managers Performance

Suggested Citation:

Pangaribuan, David, Total Quality Management and Corporate Governance to Improving Performance Cooperative Managers (May 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4103878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4103878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Sri Fadilah
The Effect of Implementation of Internal Control and Total Quality Management on the Implementation of Good Governance. XIV National Accounting Symposium Posted: 2011
V Gaspersz
The Influence of Total Quality Management on Employee Performance at the Bhakti Artha Swadana Cooperative Posted: 2011-03-13
R Khairunnisa
The Influence of Total Quality Management and Just In Time on the Company's Quality Performance Posted: 2021-03-06
R Lupiyoadi , R B Ikhsan , Practicum Of
Business Research Methods Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,053
RANK
245,414
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies