Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nonlinear Relationship between Esops and Firm Performance: Evidence from China
Journal of Business Research

34 Pages Posted: 7 May 2022 Publication Status: Published

Apostolos Dasilas

University of Macedonia

Abstract

On June 20, 2014 the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issued the “Guidance on the pilot implementation of employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) by listed companies” which marked a new era of the employee ownership of Chinese listed companies. The purpose of the “Guidance” was to stimulate employees’ enthusiasm and align their interests with those of owners through the implementation of ESOPs. This study examines the impact of employee and executive ownership on the accounting and market-based performance of 620 Chinese listed companies from 2014 to 2020. Using pooled cross-sectional regression analysis, the results reveal a curvilinear relationship between ESOPs and firm performance. In specific, the results suggest that there is an inflection point of the inverted U-shaped relationship between ESOPs and firm performance indicators. Moreover, the results reveal a U-shaped relationship between executive ownership and company performance.

Keywords: Employee stock ownership plan, executive ownership, employee engagement, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Dasilas, Apostolos, The Nonlinear Relationship between Esops and Firm Performance: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4103102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4103102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Aguilera , P Duran , P Heugens , S Sauerwald , R Turturea , M Vanessen
State ownership, political ideology, and firm performance around the world
Journal of World Business , volume 56 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
A Ben-Ner
The life-cycle of worker-owned firms in market economies: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 10 , p. 287 - 313 Posted: 1988
Load more
1 Citations
Beny Mwenda , Magwana Ibrahim Ngollo
Do Employee Stock Ownership Plans Affect the Quest for Firm Profitability? Evidence from Tanzania
Jurnal Manajemen Teori dan Terapan| Journal of Theory and Applied Management , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 52 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Specialities
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Global Business Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies