Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Mic to Market: The Role of CEO Podcasts in Financial Markets

60 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Jul 2025

Nathan T. Marshall

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Jackie Wegner

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Colorado at Boulder, Leeds School of Business, Department of Accounting

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: June 27, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the capital market impacts of CEO podcasts—an emerging but informal communication channel. We distinguish episodes where CEOs are discussed from those where CEOs appear in-person as interview guests. CEO podcasts elicit significant market responses, including increased trading activity and abnormal returns, particularly among retail investors. However, CEO-interview podcasts generate stronger effects than mentions, likely due to their perceived intentionality and potential to foster para-social relationships. We also document heightened investor attention—measured via Wikipedia searches—especially for CEOs following interview episodes. Notably, CEO-interview podcasts following negative earnings announcements are associated with significant return reversals, suggesting they may influence perceptions through a more personal and conversational tone. Consistent with this, content analysis shows these podcasts are more positive and subjective, and less complex than corresponding earnings call transcripts. Our findings suggest that podcasts, though unconventional and potentially non-compliant with disclosure regulations, serve as an impactful medium through which CEOs can shape narratives, engage investors, and potentially soften the market’s response to bad news.

Keywords: Podcasts, CEO, disclosure, para-social relationships

Suggested Citation:

Marshall, Nathan T. and Wegner, Jackie and Zechman, Sarah L. C., From Mic to Market: The Role of CEO Podcasts in Financial Markets (June 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4104922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4104922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
E Blankespoor , G S Miller , H D White
The role of dissemination in market liquidity: Evidence from firms' use of Twitter™
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan
Strategic disclosure and CEO media visibility
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2020
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , C Zhu
Capital market effects of media synthesis and dissemination: Evidence from robo-journalism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Volker M. Banholzer , Nina Klimpel Maciel , Robert Weber
Werbung und PR im digitalen Zeitalter
, volume 34 , p. 403 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
598
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
RANK
103,847
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies