Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Compensation Mechanisms, and Voluntary Disclosure of Carbon Emissions: Evidence from Korea

36 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022 Last revised: 23 Jul 2023

Jiyoung Park

Hannam University

Jiyoon Lee

Yonsei University

Jewon Shin

Pennsylvania State University; Yonsei University

Date Written: January 26, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the effects of incentive-alignment mechanisms on voluntary disclosure of carbon emissions in Korea, a latecomer in incorporating environmental practices into business operations. We consider in particular the effects of corporate governance and compensation mechanisms. We find that international aspects of governance mechanisms, measured by foreign ownership and foreign subsidiaries, are positively associated with the likelihood that a firm discloses carbon emissions voluntarily as well as with the extent of the details included in such disclosures. Similarly, strong internal governance, measured by board independence and gender diversity, makes voluntary, detailed carbon emissions disclosures more likely. Moreover, firms that employ compensation schemes that explicitly align corporate social responsibility (CSR) with CEO pay and those that set carbon emissions targets, which may be used to define thresholds for CEO bonuses, are more likely to voluntarily disclose carbon emissions information and to do so more extensively. As such, both international influence and internal factors that affect corporate governance and compensation structures, all of which are well-known incentive-alignment mechanisms, play important roles in voluntary carbon emissions disclosure decisions in emerging markets.

Keywords: Carbon emission, Voluntary disclosures, Corporate governance, CEO compensation

JEL Classification: G30, G32, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Park, Jiyoung and Lee, Jiyoon and Shin, Jewon, Corporate Governance, Compensation Mechanisms, and Voluntary Disclosure of Carbon Emissions: Evidence from Korea (January 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4104168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4104168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
H Al-Shaer , K Albitar , J Liu
CEO power and CSR-linked compensation for corporate environmental responsibility: UK evidence
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
J A Aragón-Correa , A Marcus , N Hurtado-Torres
The natural environmental strategies of international firms: Old controversies and new evidence on performance and disclosure , volume 30 , p. 24 - 39 Posted: 2016
M Atif , M Hossain , M S Alam , M Goergen
Does board gender diversity affect renewable energy consumption?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
K Babiak , S Trendafilova
CSR and environmental responsibility: Motives and pressures to adopt green management practices
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 24 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
178,157
4 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies