Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling Governance Issues in Global Sourcing of Accounting Services - A Qualitative Exploration

International Journal of Asian Business and Information Management, 13(1), 1-16, 2022

16 Pages Posted: 26 May 2022

Aini Aman

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Suzana Muhamad Said

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Dr Omkar Dastane

Curtin University, Malaysia; UCSI Graduate Business School, UCSI University

Date Written: May 6, 2022

Abstract

As global accounting services continue to increase; firms need to be equipped with proper governance framework. The need for governance of global sourcing activities is being emphasized practically as well as academically. This study aims to understand governance issues along with the mechanisms used to overcome such issues in a global sourcing of accounting services by using the migratory governance path framework. The study employs interpretive case study research approach. The fundamental issues of governance in global sourcing of accounting services were found to be related to coordination and communication aspects. Findings show that several governance mechanisms were implemented to overcome such issues. Theoretically, this study enhances the understanding of governance issues in global sourcing by providing further evidence on the importance of governance in global sourcing of accounting services. The study has practical implications in terms of offering best practices of good governance for global sourcing.

Keywords: Accounting, communication, coordination, global sourcing, governance, services

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Aman, Aini and Said, Suzana Muhamad and Dastane, Omkar, Unraveling Governance Issues in Global Sourcing of Accounting Services - A Qualitative Exploration (May 6, 2022). International Journal of Asian Business and Information Management, 13(1), 1-16, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4104926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies