Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of common control combination transactions in Malawian Banking Industry

Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3. No. 1

19 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

There is growing interest in common control combination across the global as preparers of financial statements are grappling with increased scrutiny in company acquisitions and mergers within particular business group for varied reasons more importantly because there are currently no accounting standards both under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and US GAAPs. Such transactions could be subjected to massive abuse under creative accounting (financial statement fraud) or errors with little mitigating factors to the detriment of the users of the financial statements. The results of this study indicate that Malawian Banking industry is struggling in accounting for common control combinations and this is a major cause for concern. Public accountants, industry regulators and stock exchanges must up their game to be more vigilant when dealing with reporting entities which have undertaken common control combination transactions.

Keywords: Common; Control; Combination; Bank;

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Impact of common control combination transactions in Malawian Banking Industry (April 1, 2022). Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3. No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Companies Act Posted: 2013
Accounting for a transfer of a business or entity under four Scenarios -Issues Paper, EFRAG TEG meeting , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2018-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
RANK
765,896
2 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies