Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intersection of IAS 24 Related Parties Transactions and IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements: Malawian Case Study

Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1

15 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

This is a review of US$55.6 million company acquisition which took place in first quarter of 2022 in Malawi. This study explored whether it was a business combination or asset purchase under IFRS 3 – Business Combination. These are certainly complex matters and very technical in nature requiring multifaceted approach to decode hidden intentions of the parties involved which are not publicly disclosed. The role of related parties based on the principles of IAS 24 – Related Parties Transactions were explored in the context of IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of this study indicate that the former owners of acquiree are still able to exercise control by directing the financial and operating policies of acquiree and are significantly exposed to the activities of the acquiree. It is not clear whether deferred or contingent consideration arose out of the said transaction. The study concluded that acquisition transaction mirrored sale and lease back transaction and perhaps should be looked from IFRS 16 – Leases. Further analysis is recommended.

Keywords: Intersection; Related-Party; Consolidation; Malawi

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Intersection of IAS 24 Related Parties Transactions and IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements: Malawian Case Study (April 1, 2022). Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Bdo , Cristina Bunea-Bontaş , Aurora , Petre Cosmina , Mihaela
Distinguishing between a business combination and an asset purchase in the extractive industry
Asset or Business Acquisition? A Question Not to be Underestimated European Commission-EC Staff (2010) International Accounting Standard 24 -Related Party Disclosures Posted: 2009
Graham Holt
A look at the standards for transactions with related parties
IFRS 10 -Consolidated Financial Statements (2015) IFRS 12 -Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Posted: 2010
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Consideration considerations in acquisition transactions in the privatisation of Indebank and Malawi Savings Limited
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal Posted: 2020
Special Issue , volume 2 , p. 33 - 54
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
787
RANK
580,030
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies