Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Impact Investing via affiliation with Academia, NGOs, or other collaborations? 

37 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2022 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Theodor Cojoianu

Singapore Management University; Edinburgh Business School - The University of Edinburgh

Andreas G. F. Hoepner

Smurfit Graduate Business School, University College Dublin; European Commission - DG FISMA

Yanan Lin

UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School

Fabiola Schneider

University College Dublin (UCD); European Commission's Platform on Sustainable Finance

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

While ESG investing has become mainstream, impact investment has yet to be institutionalised and legitimized. We investigate how impact investment firms claim legitimacy compared to their ESG peers. Impact investment is still a nascent field and suffers from a heavier burden of proof. Legitimacy has been recognised as a strategy to overcome the liability of newness. Combining private market data with statements made by investment firms on their websites we investigate how they claim legitimacy. We find that impact investment firms are more likely to claim to be involved in partnerships, specifically with academia and corporations than their ESG peers. These serve as complimentary sources of legitimacy for the dual goal of impact investors: Corporations give legitimacy to the commercial angle while academia supports legitimizing measurement of positive impact. Results for NGOs and governments as partners are insignificant. This first comparative quantitative study investigates the distinct differentiations impact investment firms employ to claim legitimacy compared to ESG investment firms and how legitimacy is claimed using associations. Most existing literature focuses on the investment perspective while this research takes an organisational lens.

Keywords: Impact Investing, Legitimacy, Responsible Investment, ESG

JEL Classification: G24; L26; L31;O35; Q01; Q56

Suggested Citation:

Cojoianu, Theodor and Hoepner, Andreas G. F. and Lin, Yanan and Schneider, Fabiola,

Impact Investing via affiliation with Academia, NGOs, or other collaborations? 

(August 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4106603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
166 References
Z Acs , P Braunerhjelm , D Audretsch , B Carlsson
The knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship
Small Business Economics , volume 32 , p. 15 - 30 Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , K Hockerts
Impact investing: review and research agenda
Journal of Small Business and Entrepreneurship , volume 33 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , K Hockerts
Impact Investing: Review and Research Agenda
Journal of Small Business and Entrepreneurship , volume 33 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
H Aldric , C Fiol
Fools Rush in? The Institutional Context of Industry Creation
The Academy of Management Review , volume 19 , issue 4 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
RANK
172,502
166 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Climate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies