Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inconsistencies in application of IAS 29 and IAS 21 between foreign operation in hyperinflationary economy and consolidated financial statements of parent

Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1

9 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

This study involved a multinational entity listed on the Malawi Stock Exchange which adopted IAS 29 – Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economy emanating from its foreign operation. The results of this study indicate that it is a rare phenomenon for effects of hyperinflation of a foreign operation to wipe out the entire group’s profit of a multinational entity operating in non-hyperinflation economy. Additionally, the results of this study show serious flaws in the consolidated financial statements as they failed to disclose the adverse audit report in the financial statements of the concerned foreign operation in hyperinflationary economy. There were material differences in the monetary losses between the foreign operation and the consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, impairment losses on investment in other entities of the foreign operation, investment properties and owner occupied assets were recognised in group accounts but not the concerned foreign operation.

Keywords: Hyperinflation; Foreign; Operation; IAS 29, IAS 21

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Inconsistencies in application of IAS 29 and IAS 21 between foreign operation in hyperinflationary economy and consolidated financial statements of parent (April 1, 2022). Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Grant Thornton
Comparison between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standard, Edition 1.1, Grant Thornton LLP
IASC Foundation Education Posted: 2007
Staff Ifrs , Paper
Project: Translation of Hyperinflationary Foreign Operation (IAS 21 and IAS 29)
Agenda Ref: 4 IFRS Staff Paper , volume 4 Posted: 2012
Pricewaterhousecoopers
Venezuela enters hyperinflation" Straight away Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
251,747
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies