Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Proxy Advisory Firms Ignoring Quality of Accounting Failings at Carbon-Intensive Companies?

28 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022

Andreas G. F. Hoepner

Smurfit Graduate Business School, University College Dublin; European Commission - DG FISMA

Cormac Mc Kenna

University College Dublin (UCD) - UCD School of Business; Imperial College Business School

Matthew McQuade

University College Dublin (UCD); European Commission's Platform on Sustainable Finance

Fabiola Schneider

University College Dublin (UCD); European Commission's Platform on Sustainable Finance

Date Written: May 11, 2022

Abstract

This study reveals weaknesses with proxy voting recommendations by the two leading advisors, ISS and Glass Lewis, on financial statements approval, auditor reappointment and the reappointment of audit committee directors. We found that the advisors are failing to consider whether climate is being properly incorporated in high carbon companies’ financial statements or by the auditor charged with calling out potential financial misrepresentation. They are failing to examine potential climate-related misstatement despite a growing number of investors explicitly seeking these disclosures from companies and auditors.

ISS recommended ‘For’ votes on audit committee member appointment and auditor ratification in 93% of climate-exposed companies, suggesting proxy advisory firms are failing to read across from the climate strategy side to the financial health and auditing side. This is also true for Glass Lewis who recommended a ‘For’ vote 91% of the time. Of the voting data collected on proposals related to Approvals of Financial Statements, ISS recommended a ‘For’ vote 91% of the time and Glass Lewis 100% of the time which further underlines the inconsistencies in proxy advisory recommendations on proposals that must factor in climate risk.

The lack of scrutiny on companies’ accounts and auditing has permitted rising incoherence between increasing disclosures relating to companies’ climate strategies, and silence on the implications of these strategies for their financial positions. There seems to be no major reprimand from auditors nor from shareholders for this inconsistency.

We believe proxy advisory firms can do more to contribute to the climate transition to a net zero world. Critically, alongside the increasingly rigorous analysis they undertake of companies’ proposed climate strategies, they need to consider how climate risks are being captured by company financial statements and auditors when they make recommendations for director and auditor votes. They also need to respond to investor demands for visibility of the entity’s resilience to a 1.5°C pathway.

Proxy agencies’ major influence over the outcome of proxy vote resolutions is unquestionable, and their failure to scrutinise financial governance is thus creating scope for climate misrepresentation. Investors should make clear to proxy advisors their expectations that company directors are held accountable for delivering reliable climate-aligned accounts, and that auditors likewise are held accountable for verifying this.


Keywords: Proxy Voting, Audit, Climate Risk

Suggested Citation:

Hoepner, Andreas G. F. and Mc Kenna, Cormac and McQuade, Matthew and Schneider, Fabiola, Are Proxy Advisory Firms Ignoring Quality of Accounting Failings at Carbon-Intensive Companies? (May 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4106561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Carbon Tracker
Flying blind: The glaring absence of climate risks in financial reporting
Milieudefensie et al. v. Royal Dutch Shell plc Posted: 2021
David Pitt-Watson
Letter in response to SEC's request for input on climate-related financial disclosure
Climate Accounting Project Posted: 2020
Young Ernst
Climate related risks in financial statements
2022 Policy Guidelines Posted: 2021
Glass Lewis
2022 Policy Guidelines ESG Initiatives Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
RANK
420,501
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies