Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mission Critical ESG and the Scope of Director Oversight Duties

2022 Columbia Business Law Review 732 (2022)

72 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022 Last revised: 27 Feb 2023

Roy Shapira

Stigler Center, University of Chicago Booth School of Business; ECGI; Reichman University

Date Written: May 12, 2022

Abstract

Corporations are facing increased scrutiny over how they treat their stakeholders and society at large. Failing to address key environmental, social, and governance (ESG) concerns may generate significant blowbacks, making it harder for corporations to attract talent, access capital, and sell products. ESG concerns have thus become a major source of reputational and financial risk for companies and their shareholders. One way for shareholders to hold managers personally accountable for being inattentive to critical ESG risks is by filing a derivative action on behalf of the company, claiming that managers breached their oversight duties (Caremark duties). Until recently, corporate legal scholars have dismissed this possibility, reasoning that oversight duties are unenforceable. That reasoning is no longer valid. In the past two years, Delaware courts have completely revamped their Caremark framework. The courts are now increasingly willing to apply enhanced scrutiny of directors’ efforts, and increasingly willing to grant shareholders access to internal company documents in order to investigate failure-of-oversight claims. There can no longer be any question about Caremark’s relevance. But there remains a question about Caremark’s scope. Would the courts be as willing to apply enhanced scrutiny and provide access to pre-suit discovery when the case concerns nonlegal risks? In other words, do directors face personal liability for how their companies treat the environment, diversity, and privacy, even when such behaviors are not punishable by law?

This Article examines the evolving scope of director oversight duties and makes three contributions. First, the Article synthesizes the caselaw to clarify that the relevant question when determining Caremark’s scope is not whether a risk is “legal” or “reputational,” but rather whether the risk is “critical” to the company’s success. The Article’s second contribution is to build the analytical framework for distinguishing between ESG risks that are critical (and thus subject to a realistic Caremark liability threat) and those that are not. The Article then applies the framework to concrete ESG concerns, such as cybersecurity, political spending, and sexual misconduct. Finally, the Article evaluates the social desirability of extending Caremark to oversight of nonlegal risks. The key disadvantage of doing so is that it increases the costs of judicial hindsight bias, while the key advantage is that it counterbalances the flaws of other ESG enforcement mechanisms. The Article concludes that courts should adopt a more judiciable approach when scrutinizing board oversight of nonlegal risks.


Keywords: ESG, Oversight Duties, Compliance, Caremark, Fiduciary Duties, Litigation, Corporate Law, Board Oversight, Reputation, Cybersecurity, Climate Risk, Sexual Misconduct, Corporate Political Spending, AI Bias, Hindsight Bias

JEL Classification: K22, K24, K00, K41

Suggested Citation:

Shapira, Roy, Mission Critical ESG and the Scope of Director Oversight Duties (May 12, 2022). 2022 Columbia Business Law Review 732 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4107748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
For references on just how much investments are being influenced by ESG criteria, see infra note 14. 5 For a concrete real-world example, see ExxonMobil Loses a Proxy Fight with Green Investors, THE ECONOMIST
On the rise of ESG-related shareholder activism more generally, see Lisa M. Fairfax Posted: 2019
For concrete, real-world examples, see infra note 19
On ESG disclosure regimes more generally, see Ann M. Lipton, Not Everything Is About Investors: The Case for Mandatory Stakeholder Disclosure
Yale J Reg
Posted: 2020
Jill E Fisch
Making Sustainability Disclosure Sustainable, 107 GEO
L.J , volume 923 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,035
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,057
RANK
49,975
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies