Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review on COVID-19 Outbreak: Marketing and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

International Journal of Engineering and Management Research 2022

5 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022

Rudresh S

St. Claret College, Bangalore

Manu Vasudevan Unni

St. Claret College, Bangalore

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

The research paper focuses on the evidence based on preliminary study conducted on how the COVID-19 outbreak might affect the evolution of business obligations to discharge the activities which could uplift the society and marketing. Ironically, it is true that the pandemic has provided an excellent opportunity for corporations to redirect their focus points and to comprehend the newer dimension of customer’s ethical decision-making process.

This outbreak has a significant impact on marketing and magnifies the approach towards the strategic marketing efforts drawn by firms as opposed to content marketing.

We conclude the study by outlining a number of research issues and areas that have the potential to be productive.


Keywords: Ethics, Covid-19, Pandemic, Corporate Social Responsibility, Customers, Principles

Suggested Citation:

S, Rudresh and Unni, Manu Vasudevan, A Review on COVID-19 Outbreak: Marketing and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (April 2022). International Journal of Engineering and Management Research 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4107253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Abbruzzese , D Ingram , S Click
The coronavirus pandemic drove life online. It may never return: What passes for normal life now happens almost entirely online , p. 19 - 23 Posted: 2020
Y Anwar , N El-Bassiouny , S Idowu , R Schmidpeter , L Zu
Marketing and the sustainable development goals (SDGs): A review and research agenda
The Future of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. CSR, Sustainability, Ethics & Governance Posted: 2020
Mark Armstrong
Coronavirus crisis sparks race for inventive solutions , p. 19 - 23 Posted: 2020
Bbc
Coronavirus: Vodafone offers 30 days free mobile data , p. 18 - 22 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
724,439
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral Marketing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies