Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Decision-Usefulness of ASC 606 Revenue Disaggregation

56 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022

Lisa A. Hinson

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Mark Zakota

University of Maryland

Date Written: May 7, 2022

Abstract

The disclosure requirements of ASC 606 fundamentally altered the volume and granularity of revenue information. However, because of the significant judgment associated with the principles-based standard, it is unclear whether the new disclosures increased the decision-usefulness of financial reports. To shed light on this question, we investigate the revenue disaggregation requirements of ASC 606. These requirements had significant disclosure consequences, illustrated by an over two-fold increase in the median number of revenue items in disaggregating firms’ reports. Consistent with enhanced decision-usefulness, we find higher (lower) analyst sales forecast accuracy (dispersion) for disaggregating firms. These benefits are primarily present when disaggregation is accompanied by detailed qualitative disclosures, when disaggregated revenues are comparable, and when the granularity of segment information is low. Our study provides novel insights into the merits of principles-based disaggregation and should interest standard setters currently considering broader disaggregation under the financial performance reporting project.

Keywords: ASC 606; FASB; Revenue disaggregation.

JEL Classification: G24; G30; G34.

Suggested Citation:

Hinson, Lisa A. and Pundrich, Gabriel and Zakota, Mark, The Decision-Usefulness of ASC 606 Revenue Disaggregation (May 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4108032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4108032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Ahn , U Hoitash , R Schmardebeck
The impact of accounting standard adoption complexity on financial reporting quality and market outcomes: Evidence from ASC 606. Working paper Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D J Taylor , D Samuels
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2022
Auditanalytics
Early adoption of ASC 606: first glance Posted: 2016
Auditanalytics
Six months to new revenue standard deadline Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
940
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,803
RANK
56,977
9 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies