Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Risks and the Value Relevance of Current and Historical Earnings

Posted: 23 May 2022

Joseph Micale

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Mingying Cheng

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: May 12, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether independent, third-party assessments of firms’ Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) risk exposures provide forward-looking information content to capital market participants by evaluating whether these ESG risks have a moderating effect on the ability of earnings and the book values of equity to predict investors’ expectations of the present value of future cash flows. We find that firms’ higher ESG risk exposure increases the association between current earnings and firm values, while decreasing the relevance of book values of equity (i.e., historical earnings). We find that this effect is strongest for firms with the highest levels of risk exposure and following large changes to ESG risk exposures. In additional analyses, we disaggregate ESG risk exposure and while we find that each component of ESG has predictive power consistent with the main findings, governance risks dominant the results in head to head specifications. Taken together, our findings suggest that governance risk exposures provide forward-looking information content to investors when they evaluate the ability of current earnings to predict future cash flows. Our results are robust to several measures of ESG risk exposure, entropy balancing specifications, and exogenous shocks to ESG attention following global environmental and social justice initiatives.

Keywords: ESG, RepRisk, Value Relevance, Earnings, Market Pricing

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Micale, Joseph and Cheng, Mingying, ESG Risks and the Value Relevance of Current and Historical Earnings (May 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4108161
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
529
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies