Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bondholder Governance, Takeover Likelihood, and Division of Gains

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022 Last revised: 14 Feb 2023

Evrim Akdoğu

Sabanci University

Aysun Alp Paukowits

University of Maryland

Ugur Celikyurt

Koc University - College of Administrative Sciences and Economics

Date Written: February 14, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the effect of creditor rights on the probability of becoming a takeover target by constructing firm-level bond covenant indices. Our primary result is that the more restrictive covenants a firm has, the more likely it is to become the target of an acquisition. This finding is robust to the exclusion of merger-related event-risk covenants which have the opposite impact and appear to reduce takeover likelihood. Furthermore, this effect is not driven by financially distressed firms and rather contained in small, profitable, financially healthy firms with high growth opportunities and low cash holdings. We also find that a higher target covenant index leads to a significant decrease (increase) in target (acquirer) abnormal returns around acquisition announcements and tilts merger gains towards the acquirer, suggesting the presence of a ‘covenant discount’ for potential target firms. Overall, our results are consistent with covenants creating key frictions, and in turn, making firms viable targets for acquirers with possibly deep pockets.

Keywords: Mergers, Acquisitions, Bond Covenants, Corporate Governance, Creditor Rights

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Akdoğu, Evrim and Alp Paukowits, Aysun and Celikyurt, Ugur, Bondholder Governance, Takeover Likelihood, and Division of Gains (February 14, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4108061 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4108061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
E Akdoğu , Alp Paukowits , A
Supply of Credit and Corporate Bond Covenants
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 72 Posted: 2022
N Aktas , D Petmezas , H Servaes , N Karampatsas
Credit ratings and Acquisitions , volume 69 Posted: 2021
L S Bagwell
Share repurchase and takeover deterrence
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 22 , p. 72 - 88 Posted: 1991
Load more
2 Citations
Renjie Wang , Shuo Xia
Poison Bonds
64 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 14 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 590
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aysun Alp Paukowits , Jean Helwege , Yun Liu
Debt Maturity, Takeover Risk, and De Facto Seniority 
53 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2025 · Last revised: 7 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
472,791
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies