Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sanctions and Social Capital: Evidence from the Russian Invasion of Ukraine

54 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Feb 2023

Fangzhou Lu

The University of Hong Kong - Department of Finance; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Lei Huang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Sixuan Li

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 24, 2022

Abstract

What determines firms’ decisions to exit Russia because of the Ukraine invasion and do investors appreciate firms’ social image management? We test five potential firm motives, the reputation concern and social sanction channel, the altruism channel, the institution and law origin channel, the security and defense concern channel, and the stakes in war channel. Firms that suspend or withdraw business from Russia, they have higher ESG overall scores, especially the social score and the environment score. However, firms with higher ESG scores tend to take longer to announce their withdrawal and their degree of cutoff from Russia is also the “softest” as they could be ready to resume business in Russia when the invasion is over. They are also more likely to have headquarters in a country with a higher security concern, public social-awareness, institutional quality, a common law origin, or a policy to impose sanctions on Russia at the country level. We find no evidence that stakes in Ukraine or Russia affect firms’ decisions to exit Russia. These firms also suffered a 58 bps drop in stock price after their announcements of the business suspension in Russia, and there is no evidence that they earn a stock market “reputation premium” relative to firms that refuse to exit. Overall, our evidence supports the reputation concern channel instead of pure altruistic motives. Moreover, the fact that the marginal investors do not appreciate the cutoff from Russia suggests that non-pecuniary costs in the form of social sanction or long-term ESG fund outflow potentially drives firms’ exit from Russia.

Keywords: Russian invasion, Ukraine, Sanction, ESG, Social Capital

JEL Classification: G12, F3, H56, N4

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Fangzhou and Huang, Lei and Li, Sixuan, Sanctions and Social Capital: Evidence from the Russian Invasion of Ukraine (March 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4108129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4108129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Andreoni
Giving with impure altruism: Applications to charity and ricardian equivalence
Journal of Political Economy , volume 97 , p. 1447 - 1458 Posted: 1989
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further us evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
N Ashraf , O Bandiera
Altruistic capital
American Economic Review , volume 107 , p. 70 - 75 Posted: 2017
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
709
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,514
RANK
83,225
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies