Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Value Implications of Corporate ESG Bond Issuance in Korea

27 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Boxian Wang

Yonsei University

Jiyoon Lee

Yonsei University

Hyejin Park

Hanyang University ERICA Campus, School of Economics

Date Written: May 14, 2022

Abstract

We examine the determinants of and investor responses to corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) bond issuance in Korea. We find that ESG bond issuance is positively associated with firm size and foreign ownership stakes. We also find that firms that establish ESG committees at the board level and those that are subject to carbon emission trading system are more likely to issue ESG bonds. Unlike prior studies that analyze green bond issuance in developed markets and China, we find no significant stock market reaction to ESG bond issuance in Korea, suggesting that the signaling effect of ESG bonds--in which companies credibly signal their commitment to ESG by issuing ESG bonds--does not exist. This paper suggests that enhanced ESG bond standards, post-issuance reporting, and verification procedures are needed in the Korean ESG bond market.

Keywords: ESG bond, corporate social responsibility (CSR), signaling

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Boxian and Lee, Jiyoon and Park, Hyejin, Determinants and Value Implications of Corporate ESG Bond Issuance in Korea (May 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4109666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4109666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M Adams , P Hardwick
An analysis of corporate donations: United kingdom evidence
Journal of Management Studies , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 641 - 654 Posted: 1998
A S Ahmed , T Iwasaki
Foreign ownership, manager monitoring, and firm value: Evidence from Japanese firms Posted: 2015
A Alnabsha , H A Abdou , C G Ntim , A A Elamer
Corporate boards, ownership structures and corporate disclosures: Evidence from a developing country
Journal of Applied Accounting Research Posted: 2018
I Alshbili , A A Elamer , E Beddewela
Ownership types, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility disclosures: Empirical evidence from a developing country
Accounting Research Journal Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
311,489
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies