Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Faultlines and Management Forecasts

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4109642

52 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 7 Jun 2022

Xiaotao Kelvin Liu

DMSB - Accounting

Mathijs Van Peteghem

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether management faultlines (i.e., dissimilar groupings among executives) are related to management forecast processes and outcomes. Management faultlines are formed based on the simultaneous alignment of senior executives’ demographic characteristics (e.g., an MBA background, elite school education, gender, board experience, age, or tenure). We argue that management faultlines impede information sharing, create conflicts, and divert managerial attention away from common-goal tasks. We hypothesize and find that management faultlines are associated with lower management forecast quality. Furthermore, the faultline effect is more pronounced when forecasting difficulty (i.e., inter-analyst forecast dispersion or earnings volatility) is high. In contrast, the faultline effect is mitigated when a firm nurtures a supportive and diverse workplace (i.e., high workplace diversity score). In addition, we find that management forecast propensity and frequency are negatively associated with management faultlines. Overall, our findings suggest that management faultlines compromise management forecast processes and outcomes. In particular, since faultlines can arise as a company diversifies, boards should be aware of these unintended consequences and how they can be mitigated.

Keywords: management faultlines, demographic diversity, senior executives, management forecasts, forecast quality

JEL Classification: M4, M14

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiaotao Kelvin and Van Peteghem, Mathijs, Management Faultlines and Management Forecasts (May 5, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4109642, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4109642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta ; Ali , A , W Zhang
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 43 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2005
P Badolato , D Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
331,544
2 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies