Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Audit Partner Narcissism: Evidence From the UK Market

Posted: 23 May 2022 Last revised: 24 May 2022

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Peiwei Lyu

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of Bath, School of management

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: April 11, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the consequences of audit partner narcissism in a large sample of UK firms. Using the size of the audit partner’s signature to measure narcissism, we find that, as narcissism increases, the propensity of auditors to tolerate clients’ earnings management increases. At the same time, the quality of the audit opinion, measured by restatements and the propensity to issue modified audit opinions, is not significantly associated with audit partner narcissism. In addition, we document that audit fees decrease with the narcissism of the audit partner. Notably, the results on earnings management and the quality of the audit opinion are in contrast to those found by prior research, which focuses on the Chinese and the Taiwanese settings; this is likely due to substantial cultural and contextual differences relative to Western countries (Church et al. 2020).

We thank, for helpful comments, participants in the 2022 British Accounting & Finance Association (BAFA) Annual Meeting (Nottingham 11-13 April 2022).

Keywords: Narcissism, Audit partner, Audit quality, Audit fees

JEL Classification: G30, G41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Lyu, Peiwei and Perotti, Pietro, The Consequences of Audit Partner Narcissism: Evidence From the UK Market (April 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4109142
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies