Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the internal audit committee contribute to the overall firm performance or an appearance only? Evidence from an emerging market

The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, June, 2021

13 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Debashis Saha

Jahangirnagar University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

The research aims to assess the association between the qualities of an audit committee and corporate performance. Employing secondary data from 53 Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE)-listed banks and financial institutions (522 firm-year observations; 2008-2018), the findings, using a fixed-effect regression model, specify that the size of the audit committee, independence, and gender diversity significantly affect firm's financial performance. However, the audit committee meeting frequency and the affiliation with BIG-4 audit firms do not significantly contribute to this association. While the abundant research scrutinized the connection amid company governance besides the firm's financial performance relationship, this research adds to the mounting form of works by exploring the relevance of internal audit committee demographics and their impact on corporate performance in an emerging economy.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Audit committee, Firm performance, Banks, Financial institutions, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Debashis, Does the internal audit committee contribute to the overall firm performance or an appearance only? Evidence from an emerging market (June 1, 2021). The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, June, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
RANK
718,946
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies