Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subordinate Executives’ Horizon and Firm Policies

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Mohamed A. Mekhaimer

St. John Fisher University

ALEX ABAKAH

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Awad Ibrahim

University of Portsmouth - Portsmouth Business School, Students

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: May 16, 2022

Abstract

Motivated by the internal governance theory, we investigate the links between subordinate executives’ horizon and firm policies. Using the number of years to retirement to capture subordinate executives’ horizon inside the firm, we find that subordinates’ horizon is positively associated with firm’s risk-taking, long-term investments growth, and research and development productivity, but negatively related to the dividend decision and the payout ratio. We also find a positive relationship between subordinates’ horizon and firm value. Our results are robust to controlling for alternative explanations including the pay gap between CEO and subordinate executives, executives’ overconfidence, CEO’s decision horizon, and other governance mechanisms. The results are also robust to alternative measures of subordinates’ horizon, and after addressing potential endogeneity concerns.

Keywords: Subordinate executives’ horizon, internal governance, risk-taking, long-term investment, payout ratio, firm performance.

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Mekhaimer, Mohamed A. and ABAKAH, ALEX and Ibrahim, Awad and Hussainey, Khaled, Subordinate Executives’ Horizon and Firm Policies (May 16, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Acharya , V Viral , C Stewart , Raghuram G Myers , Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Murad Antia , Christos Pantzalis , Jung Chul Park
CEO Decision Horizon and Firm Performance: An Empirical Investigation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 301 Posted: 2010
Lucian A Bebchuk , K J Martijn Cremers , Urs C Peyer
The CEO Pay Slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
RANK
601,090
3 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies