Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management compensation and corporate governance reform in China

Journal of Chinese Governance, 6(4). https://doi.org/10.1080/23812346.2021.2008184

34 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Yongli Luo

Houston Baptist University, College of Business

Date Written: Nov 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of split-share structure reform on the dynamics between executive compensation and firm performance for Chinese public firms. Using panel data analysis and a dynamic GMM model, it reveals that the split-share structure reform has positive impacts on management compensation and firm performance. The reform results in significant liquidity and
control effects on executive compensation shown by increases in market capitalization and decreases in state ownership of the firms. The results generally support the principles of agency theory and confirm the existence of performance-based pay scheme in Chinese public firms. However, evidence also demonstrates that Chinese management compensation practices may emphasize relation-based contracts rather than market-based contracts. This finding implies that government officials or corporate board members may ensure efficient incentives in situations involving weak corporate governance. The findings have important implications for investors, board members, and policy makers who wish to understand the lexicon of political science in emerging markets.

Keywords: Corporate governance, management compensation, split-share structure reform, China

JEL Classification: G01, G3, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Yongli, Management compensation and corporate governance reform in China (Nov 28, 2021). Journal of Chinese Governance, 6(4). https://doi.org/10.1080/23812346.2021.2008184, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
RANK
856,579
156 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies