Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Catering through Transparency: Voluntary ESG Disclosure by Asset Managers and Fund Flows

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023

95 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2025

Marco Ceccarelli

VU University Amsterdam

Simon Glossner

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Mikael Homanen

City University London - The Business School; PRI Association

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosure by institutional investors can help channel responsible capital toward institutions with better ESG practices. We examine institutional investors that must disclose their ESG practices after voluntarily joining the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the largest responsible investment network. Upon joining, investors annually submit publicly available, standardized ESG reports, which are assessed and scored by the PRI. Clients allocate more assets to institutions that receive higher scores on their disclosure, especially if corroborated by third-party ESG fund ratings. The disclosure correlates with more sustainable portfolios and more ESG engagements in countries where responsible institutional asset owners have a stronger presence, and with higher engagement elsewhere.   


Keywords: PRI signatories, voluntary investor disclosure, ESG investing, fund flows, PRI reporting framework

JEL Classification: G23, G4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ceccarelli, Marco and Glossner, Simon and Homanen, Mikael, Catering through Transparency: Voluntary ESG Disclosure by Asset Managers and Fund Flows (May 18, 2022). Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4110596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Ray Ball , Sudarshan Jayaraman , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the Confirmation Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Jan Barton , Gregory Waymire
Investor protection under unregulated financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 38 , p. 65 - 116 Posted: 2004
Lucian A Bebchuk , Alma Cohen , Scott Hirst
The Agency Problems of Institutional Investors
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , p. 89 - 102 Posted: 2017
Anne Beyer , Daniel A Cohen , Thomas Z Lys , Beverly R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,205
RANK
43,486
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies