Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tone of Language, Financial Disclosure, and Earnings Management: A Textual Analysis of Form 20‑F

Finance Innovation, 8, 43. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40854-022-00346-5

19 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022

Shuangyan Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Guangrui Wang

Hanwang Technology Co., Ltd.

Yongli Luo

Houston Baptist University, College of Business

Date Written: May 10, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between the tone of financial disclosures and managers’ earnings management behavior using Form 20-F filings of Chinese firms listed in the U.S. during 2002–2014. The results show that the proportion of positive, uncertain, or modal words used in financial disclosures is positively related to corporate earnings management, implying that managers attempt to conceal earnings management behavior by manipulating the tone of their financial reports. In addition, robustness tests are conducted using an alternative proxy for earnings management that considers the effects of the financial crisis and separately examines the information and non-information technology industries. The results suggest that the tone used in financial disclosures has informative value, and textual analysis can be an effective tool for identifying earnings management.

Keywords: Tone, Earnings management, Textual analysis, Financial statement

JEL Classification: G15, M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Li, Shuangyan and Wang, Guangrui and Luo, Yongli, Tone of Language, Financial Disclosure, and Earnings Management: A Textual Analysis of Form 20‑F (May 10, 2022). Finance Innovation, 8, 43. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40854-022-00346-5 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
441,693
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies