Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Current Expected Credit Loss Approach on Banks' Lending during Stress Periods: Evidence from the COVID-19 Recession

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Jing Chen

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

In the wake of the financial crisis, policymakers expressed the concern that the incurred loss model delays loan loss recognition to economic stress periods and thereby exacerbates banks’ lending contraction during these periods. Addressing this concern, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, which requires large public banks to accrue for loan losses using the current expected credit loss (CECL) approach starting in January 2020. We hypothesize and find that banks that adopted CECL prior to the COVID-19 pandemic increased loan loss provisions and reduced loan growth during the accompanying recession more than other banks. The lending contraction is stronger for adopting banks with low regulatory capital and low loan impairment and is primarily driven by commercial loans. Lastly, we find that counties in which CECL-adopting banks have higher market share experience larger increases in unemployment rates during the recession and slower subsequent recoveries.

Keywords: Current expected credit loss (CECL) approach, loan loss provisions, banks, lending, COVID-19, recession, regulatory capital JEL Classifications: E32, G21, G28, M41, M48

JEL Classification: E32, G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jing and Dou, Yiwei and Ryan, Stephen G. and Zou, Youli, The Effect of the Current Expected Credit Loss Approach on Banks' Lending during Stress Periods: Evidence from the COVID-19 Recession (July 10, 2023).

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4110109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,773
RANK
43,973
3 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies