Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-Level Accounting Enforcement and IPO Underpricing

Abacus (Forthcoming)

55 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 7 May 2023

Jochen Bigus

Free University Berlin, Department Accounting and Finance

Florian Dreyer

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - School of Business & Economics

Date Written: March 11, 2022

Abstract

Using a sample of up to 2,503 IPOs in 32 countries in the years 2011-2017, we predict and find that higher levels of country-level accounting enforcement are associated with lower levels of IPO underpricing. IPOs in countries with a relatively low accounting enforcement score (second quintile) exhibit a mean underpricing of 19%, whereas the mean underpricing amounts to just 9% in countries with a relatively high score (fourth quintile). The results remain qualitatively the same when we employ a multi-level model or a difference-in-difference design. In countries that substantially strengthened their accounting enforcement in the 2003-2009 period, the level of IPO underpricing decreased significantly. We show that accounting enforcement matters for the cost of going public.

Keywords: Accounting enforcement, underpricing, cross-country study, IPOs

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bigus, Jochen and Dreyer, Florian, Country-Level Accounting Enforcement and IPO Underpricing (March 11, 2022). Abacus (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4111207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4111207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
645
RANK
424,948
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies