Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do French Companies Cater to Share Buyback and Dividend Demand?

29 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022

Mohammed Amine RHARBI

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Nicolas S. Aubert

Aix-Marseille Université; INSEEC Business School

Sami Ben Larbi

University of Toulon

Abstract

The paper aims to determine whether French companies respond to investor demand and preference in terms of share repurchases and dividend payments. The study is based on data from the Thomson Reuters Eikon database and focuses on French companies listed on the CAC All-Tradable index from 2000 to 2016. Finally, our sample is a cylindrical panel of 199 companies over a 17-year period, representing a total of 3,383 observations. The authors employ logistical regressions to analyze the impact of independent variable on the payout decisions. Thanks to the Hausman test, they were able to define the best models. This study finds evidence that the persistence of French companies to distribute value in the form of dividend payment is linked to the existence of an investor demand for the dividend payer companies. However, French listed companies respond negatively to investors' demand for share repurchases and to investors' preference when they express a relative preference for buybacks over dividends. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this study is the first to test the catering theory in the in French context on the share repurchase and to study the catering effect on the investors preference.

Keywords: share buyback, dividend, Catering theory, dividend premium, repurchase premium, difference premium

Suggested Citation:

RHARBI, Mohammed Amine and Aubert, Nicolas S. and Ben Larbi, Sami, Do French Companies Cater to Share Buyback and Dividend Demand?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4111662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4111662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
K Anouar , N Aubert , M Wurgler , J
Does the catering theory of dividend apply to the French listed firms? Bankers Markets and Investors
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
M Baker , J Wurgler , M L Dyl , E A Kahle , K M
Dividends as Reference Points: A Behavioral Signaling Approach
SSRN Electronic Journal Banyi , volume 14 , p. 460 - 474 Posted: 2008
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect Information, Dividend Policy, and "The Bird in the Hand
Fallacy. The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 1979
Ø Bøhren , M G Josefsen , P E Steen
Stakeholder conflicts and dividend policy
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 10 , p. 2852 - 2864 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
640,233
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies