Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It Pays For Companies To Leave Russia

21 Pages Posted: 25 May 2022 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Jeffrey Sonnenfeld

Yale School of Management

Steven Tian

Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute

Steven Zaslavsky

Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute

Yash Bhansali

Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute

Ryan Vakil

Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

In this working paper, we seek to explore the response within financial markets, across asset classes, to the decisions companies are making to either exit or remain in Russia, building on our earlier analysis in The Washington Post.

Using our proprietary dataset tracking 1,200 companies, we find that equity markets are actually rewarding companies for leaving Russia while punishing those that remain behind, with divergent stock performance generally corresponding with the degree of Russian exit - which holds true across regions, sectors, and company sizes. Despite disproportionate focus on asset write-downs and lost revenue from Russia, we demonstrate that the shareholder wealth created through equity gains have already far surpassed the cost of one-time impairments for companies that have written down the value of their Russian assets. Furthermore, we find the pattern of financial markets rewarding companies for exiting Russia is not confined to only public equity markets through our analysis of credit and derivative markets, in particular longer maturity corporate debt, credit spreads, and related credit default swap pricing, showing that the investor response has been incredibly broad-based across financial markets.

Our sweeping analysis of global capital flows demonstrates the importance investors attribute to the decision to withdraw from Russia – and that investors believe the global reputational risk incurred by remaining in Russia at a time when nearly 1,000 major global corporations have exited far outweigh the costs of leaving. Clearly, doing well has not been antithetical to doing good – at least when it comes to withdrawing from Russia.

Suggested Citation:

Sonnenfeld, Jeffrey and Tian, Steven and Zaslavsky, Steven and Bhansali, Yash and Vakil, Ryan, It Pays For Companies To Leave Russia (May 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4112885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4112885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,457
RANK
12,846
17 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies