Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance: The 'Virtuous Circle' Revisited in India

Posted: 26 May 2022

Aditi Singh

Independent

Madhumita Chakraborty

Indian Institute of Management Lucknow

Date Written: May 17, 2021

Abstract

This study empirically analyses the causal relationship between corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD) and financial performance (FP) of firms in the emerging economy of India. Content analysis of CSR disclosure is conducted in annual reports of the sampled firms to create a multidimensional measure of CSRD based on stakeholder theory. “Granger causality” method is employed to examine the direction of causality between the aggregate CSRD measures and FP, and the six segregate CSR dimensions and FP. Multiple regression analysis is employed to examine CSRD-FP linkage controlling for the confounding effects of size, risk, age, industry and ownership. The results of this study show that there is statistically significant unidirectional “Granger causality” from FP to aggregate CSRD and two of the six CSRD dimensions of Indian firms. This study contributes to the scarce literature on CSRD-FP linkage in context of emerging economies by using a more inclusive data set, creating a reliable measure of CSR disclosure applicable to a large universe of firms, and including relevant control variables that affect CSRD-FP relationship.

Keywords: Financial Performance, CSR, CSR Disclosure, Profitability

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M1

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Aditi and Chakraborty, Madhumita, Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance: The 'Virtuous Circle' Revisited in India (May 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4112346
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies