Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Carbon Offsetting: An Empirical Analysis of Korean Firms

48 Pages Posted: 19 May 2022 Last revised: 15 Apr 2025

Hyejin Park

Hanyang University ERICA Campus, School of Economics

Jiyoon Lee

Yonsei University

Jewon Shin

Pennsylvania State University; Yonsei University

Eunpyo Hong

Howard University - School of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the determinants of corporate carbon offset retention and its subsequent effects on financial performance using Korean firms from 2011 to 2019. We find that exposure to carbon-related risks is the most significant driver of carbon offset retention, followed by foreign market exposure and internal governance mechanisms. Interestingly, we observe firms that engage in carbon offsetting typically have lower market values, raising concerns about potential greenwashing. However, the negative impact of carbon offset is reversed for high-emission firms. This reversal can be explained by the tangible actions taken by these firms to address carbon-transition risks such as setting clear reduction targets and making environmental investments for high-emission firms. These results suggest that high-emission firms strategically hold carbon offsets in conjunction with concrete actions to mitigate carbon transition risks, reinforcing the credibility of the firm’s commitment to reducing emissions and ultimately enhancing its market value. These findings are robust to potential endogeneity issues and measurement errors in identifying carbon offset holders.

Keywords: Carbon Offsets, Emissions, Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: G23, G30, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Park, Hyejin and Lee, Jiyoon and Shin, Jewon and Hong, Eunpyo, Corporate Carbon Offsetting: An Empirical Analysis of Korean Firms (April 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4112663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4112663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
B Baik , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim , J Lee
The liability of foreignness in international equity investments: Evidence from the us stock market
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2013
S M Bartram , K Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
223,562
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies