Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Performance and Corporate Governance of the China's Silicon Semiconductor Industry- a Two-Stage Meta-Frontier DEA and a Truncated Model
Heliyon

21 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Publication Status: Under Review

ChienCheng Lin

Guangzhou Nanfang College

Abstract

Since the start of the Sino-U.S. trade war in 2018, the future development of China’s silicon semiconductor industry, performance, corporate governance and government policy etc., arouse the interest of academia. This research combines the meta-frontier DEA and bootstrapping truncated regression to improve the above problems. We suppose that different sub-industries in semiconductor industry have the different business and governance characters which affect performance, meanwhile, it might affect government’s policy. We select 20 listed integrated circuit design (IC design) firms and 22 IC integrated device manufacturers (IC IDM) (here including foundry) as samples in China in 2020. The results show that the efficiency of the two sub-industries calculated by meta-frontier DEA can accurately reflect their financial status. The performances of the two sub-industries are affected by the same governance variables, but the IC design industry is more affected. The frequency of board meetings held and the ratio of the largest shareholder exhibit an opposite impact between the two sub-industries, thus actually reflecting their different competitive needs. This research shows a more accurate understanding of the relationship of performance and corporate governance on China’s silicon semiconductor industry and complements previous discussions.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, firm performance, silicon semiconductor industry, meta-frontier DEA, bootstrapping truncated regression

Suggested Citation:

Lin, ChienCheng, Exploring Performance and Corporate Governance of the China's Silicon Semiconductor Industry- a Two-Stage Meta-Frontier DEA and a Truncated Model. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4112918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4112918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies