Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Stakeholder Management and Firm Profitability? Evidence from India

Posted: 26 May 2022

Aditi Singh

Independent

Madhumita Chakraborty

Indian Institute of Management Lucknow

Date Written: January 17, 2021

Abstract

Purpose - This study empirically examines the relationship between corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD) and financial performance (FP) of firms in India.

Design/methodology/approach - Data for CSRD is collected by conducting content analysis of CSR disclosure in annual reports of the sampled firms. A multidimensional measure of CSRD is constructed based on stakeholder theory, consisting of six stakeholder groups – employees, customers, investors, community, environment and others. The aggregate CSRD measure is created by combining disclosure towards the six CSR dimensions. Multiple regression analysis is employed to examine CSRD-FP linkage controlling for the confounding effects of size, risk, age, industry, ownership and time period.

Findings - The results of this study indicate that aggregate CSRD measure, and four of the six CSRD dimensions, namely ‘employees’, ‘customers’, ‘environment’, and ‘others’ have a positive association with FP of firms. However, ‘investors’ and ‘community’ dimensions of CSRD are observed to have statistically insignificant association with FP of Indian firms.

Practical implications - The results reveal that adopting transparent and extensive CSR disclosure is relevant for profitability of firms, and Government interventions are required to promote CSR programs of firms towards CSR dimensions that provide no apparent financial gains.

Social implications - This study recommends companies to adopt inclusive CSR practices, and report them to their stakeholders.

Originality/value - This study contributes to the scarce literature on CSRD-FP linkage in context of emerging economies by using a more inclusive data set, creating a reliable measure
of CSR disclosure applicable to a large universe of firms, and including relevant control variables that affect CSRD-FP relationship.

Keywords: stakeholders, profitability, CSR, CSR disclosure, Financial Performance

JEL Classification: M1, M14, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Aditi and Chakraborty, Madhumita, Relationship between Stakeholder Management and Firm Profitability? Evidence from India (January 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4112328
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies