Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Effectiveness and Trade Credit

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

Posted: 26 May 2022

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Trung Pham

University of Illinois Springfield

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether trade credit is associated with internal control effectiveness. Using a sample of U.S. publicly listed firms over the period 2006-2018, we find robust evidence that internal control effectiveness firms have a lower level of trade credit. Our additional analyses show that the cost of equity capital moderates the relation between internal control effectiveness and trade credit. We also find evidence that internal control effectiveness firms make quicker payments for their trade credit contracts than other firms. In addition, we find that firms have a higher demand for trade credit when the firms have ineffective internal controls, disclose entity level internal control material weaknesses, and report internal control ineffectiveness related to trade credit accounts. Taken together, these findings suggest that internal control effectiveness plays an important role in trade credit-a special form of firms’ short-term financing source.

Keywords: internal control effectiveness; internal control weaknesses; trade credit; supplier financing.

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Mai and Pham, Trung and Xu, Hongkang, Internal Control Effectiveness and Trade Credit (May 18, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4113233
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies