Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market for CEOS: Building Legacy and Feeling Empowered Matter

IZA Discussion Paper No. 14803

55 Pages Posted: 19 May 2022 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Arnaud Dupuy

Centre de Recherche en Économie Appliquée (CREA)

John R. Kennes

VIVE - The Danish Centre of Applied Social Science

Ran Lyng

University of Toronto

Abstract

We develop a two-sided multidimensional matching model of the market for CEOs that allows for both pecuniary and non-pecuniary (amenity) compensation. The model is estimated by maximum likelihood estimation using matched CEO-firm data from Denmark. We show that CEOs have preferences for building legacy and gaining empowerment. The legacy mechanism explains why there is low mobility in the CEO market, even though firms demand general CEO skills. The empowerment mechanism explains why CEOs are willing to sacrifice significant pecuniary income to manage high equity firms. The overall conclusion is that job amenities matter in the market for CEOs.

Keywords: multidimensional matching, observed transfers, structural estimation, value of job amenities, taxation, CEO compensation, CEO performance

JEL Classification: G30, M12, C78, C35, D22, D31, J3

Suggested Citation:

Dupuy, Arnaud and Kennes, John Robert and Lyng, Ran, The Market for CEOS: Building Legacy and Feeling Empowered Matter. IZA Discussion Paper No. 14803, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4114341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M Torben , Michael Andersen , Svarer
Flexicurity-labour market performance in Denmark
CESifo Economic Studies , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 389 - 429 Posted: 2007
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
S Gary , Becker
Human Capital: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis with Special Reference to Education, First Edition Posted: 1964-06
Yoram Ben-Porath
The production of human capital and the life cycle of earnings
Journal of political economy , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 352 - 365 Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
677,550
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies