Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ‘Information Reporting’ Really Matter for Tax Compliance? The Case of Indonesia

43 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 24 May 2022

Arifin Rosid

Directorate General of Taxation; Department of Accounting

Fitri Ariyani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 19, 2022

Abstract

Businesses that have their revenue and cost reported to the tax authorities by a third party may be more likely to be caught underreporting taxes than those not subject to third-party reporting. However, very little is known about the compliance response of corporate taxpayers relating to the impact of information reporting by third-party, particularly from an emerging economy perspective. In response, we use empirical data to scrutinise tax compliance in settings where third-party information reporting is either present or absent. Investigating 538,254 anonymous corporate tax records data from the fiscal year 2014 through 2019, we find evidence that tax compliance is lower for the group without information reporting but strikingly higher for the group with information reporting. Our study shows a positive relationship between operating profit margin and corporate tax turnover ratio (CTTOR) for firms with information reporting but a negative relationship for the group otherwise, indicating the former group reported higher positive fiscal adjustment and lower operating expenses than the latter. We also find a positive association between other income ratios from side business and CTTOR for the group with information reporting but a negative relationship between the two variables for the group otherwise, indicating tax compliance is higher when the corresponding income is more detectable. Supporting other studies, this paper has critical implications in advancing the understanding of the impact of information reporting on tax-paying behaviour of firms in Indonesia. From a tax policy perspective, our results suggest that strengthening third-party reporting offers one of the effective ways to improve tax compliance.

Keywords: tax compliance, information reporting, corporate taxpayers

JEL Classification: H2, H26

Suggested Citation:

Rosid, Arifin and Ariyani, Fitri, Does ‘Information Reporting’ Really Matter for Tax Compliance? The Case of Indonesia (May 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4114000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4114000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B Adhikari , J Alm , T F Harris
Information reporting and tax compliance
AEA Papers and Proceedings , volume 110 , p. 162 - 166 Posted: 2020
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
A perspective on the experimental analysis of taxpayer reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 66 Posted: 1991
B Badertscher , S Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
426
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
156,807
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

KDI School of Public Policy & Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies