Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis On the Financial Performance of Bankruptcy Filings in Korea

73 Pages Posted: 25 May 2022

Yong Rin Park

Korea Capital Market Institute (KCMI)

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

This report explores the efficiency of corporate rehabilitation under the “Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act”, the equivalent of Chapter 11 in the US, using 1,530 hand-collected bankruptcy filings made by external financial audit corporations in Korea from 2006 through 2020. The empirical analysis of this report centers around the characteristics of authorized filings, corporate reorganization process itself, financial performance post exit, and the relation between the types of corporate distress and the mode of exit.

The main results of the analyses are as follows. First, the corporate rehabilitation appears to successfully screen the inflow of distressed companies with low turnaround potential. Second, post-exit financial performance did not improve compared to pre-filing performance for the five years post exit. Third, debt-asset ratio of the authorized filings which exited through capital structure readjustment seems to have been sufficient implying corporate reorganization was efficient in its intrinsic role. Fourth, the mode of exit was consistent with the types of corporate distress, i.e., the firms with business distress and marginal firms exited more through M&A than through capital structure readjustment and the firms with financial distress and non-marginal firms exited more through capital structure readjustment than through M&A, consistent with asset redeployment role of corporate rehabilitation.

Enhancing the efficiency of corporate rehabilitation requires the followings. First, systematic turnaround of marginal firms though corporate reorganization is difficult, therefore it is advised that marginal firms are induced to go through preemptive M&A or that the plan of reorganization gets endorsed on the condition that the firms go through asset sale. Second, management and creditors need to be incentivized for active restructuring and value enhancement through devices such as equity buy-back options and strengthened creditor rights and monitoring. Third, provision of post exit public financing is necessary for proper turnaround of newly exited firms for the first few post exit years when private capital is scarce. Fourth, acquisition demand in the capital markets for firms in corporate reorganization, one of the main driving forces for efficient corporate restructuring and asset redeployment, should be heightened.

Keywords: Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act, Chapter 11

JEL Classification: G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Park, Yong Rin, Analysis On the Financial Performance of Bankruptcy Filings in Korea (December 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4115154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4115154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
특징 기업회생 신청기업의 재무성과 분석 참고문헌 기업회생의 , 대법원
Posted: 2021
미국의 기업회생절차상 CRO(구조조정담당임원) 제도, 『경영법 률』28 , p. 113 - 140 Posted: 2018
『기업회생을 위한 Dip금융의 역할 확대 박용린 , 자본시장연구원 방안』 , 이슈보고
, p. 19 - 25
『기업부문 배분효율성 제고를 위한 자본시장의 박용린‧노산하‧이상호 , 자 역할』 , 본시장연구원
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
772,295
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies