Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing Views on the Economic Structure of Corporate Law

Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1079
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-6
European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 651/2022

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 651/2022

21 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 26 Jan 2023

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: May 20, 2022

Abstract

Written for a symposium issue celebrating the thirty-year anniversary of the publication of The Economic Structure of Corporate Law by Frank Easterbrook and Daniel Fischel (“E&F”), this essay discusses the interaction of my research over the years with their writings. During the period in which the book and articles were written, and in the many years since then, I have paid close attention to E&F’s writings in my research in the economics of corporate governance. Indeed, a significant part of my research in this field engaged closely with E&F’s writing and reached conclusions that substantially differed from theirs. Below I discuss this engagement of my work with E&F’s writings, and our respective approaches, in five corporate research areas: (i) takeover policy and rules; (ii) contractual freedom in corporate law; (iii) state competition in the provision of corporate law rules; (iv) efficiency and distribution in corporate law; and (v) corporate purpose.

JEL Classification: D02, G30, G38, G39, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A., Competing Views on the Economic Structure of Corporate Law (May 20, 2022). Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1079
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-6
European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 651/2022, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 651/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4115819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4115819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Bebchuk
The Case for Facilitating Competing Tender Offers, supra note 5
See Lucian , Bebchuk
Stock Pyramids, Cross-Ownership, and Dual Class Equity: The Creation and Agency Costs of Separating Control from Cash Flow Rights
CONCENTRATED CORPORATE OWNERSHIP 445 Posted: 2000
Lucian Arye , Bebchuk
Efficient and Inefficient Sales of Corporate Control, 109
Q. J. ECON Posted: 1994
Lucian A Bebchuk , Kobi Kastiel
The Untenable Case for Perpetual Dual-Class Stock Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,139
RANK
40,934
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies