Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputation Capital and Corporate Decoupling: An Empirical Study of the Russian Invasion of Ukraine

48 Pages Posted: 31 May 2022 Last revised: 27 Sep 2023

Siu Kai Choy

King's College London

Tat-kei Lai

IESEG School of Management, Univ. Lille, CNRS, UMR 9221 - LEM - Lille Economie Management

Kam-Ming Wan

Hanken School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

Numerous companies are under pressure from stakeholders to decouple from Russia in 2022. This paper uses the Russian invasion incident to examine the stock market reaction to 413 decoupling announcements. We find that the average five-day cumulative abnormal return around decoupling announcements is –1.52%. However, the loss is smaller for high-ESG firms than for low-ESG firms, and even if high-ESG firms are deemed to have more agency concerns. The loss is also smaller for firms with major Russian relationships and located in countries with stronger social norms. Overall, our results are more consistent with the reputation capital view of ESG.

Keywords: Russia–Ukraine war; Corporate decoupling; Reputation capital; Russian-specific capital

JEL Classification: F23, F51, L10, M14, G14

Suggested Citation:

Choy, Siu Kai and Lai, Tat-kei and Wan, Kam-Ming, Reputation Capital and Corporate Decoupling: An Empirical Study of the Russian Invasion of Ukraine (September 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4116723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4116723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
S Ahmed , M M Hasan , M R Kamal
Russia-Ukraine crisis: The effects on the European stock market
European Financial Management Posted: 2022
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
T Balyuk , A Fedyk
Divesting under pressure: US firms' exit in response to Russia's war against Ukraine
Journal of Comparative Economics Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,899
RANK
137,964
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies