Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from Mandatory CFO Compensation Disclosure

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 31 May 2022

Dichu Bao

Lingnan University

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Yong Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 20, 2022

Abstract

The 2006 SEC rule, by changing the definition of Named Executive Officers, mandates CFO compensation disclosure. Using this setting and a difference-in-differences research design, we study the real effects of CFO compensation disclosure regulation on CFO job performance. We hypothesize that the disclosure of CFO compensation information, by facilitating shareholder monitoring of the board in providing appropriate incentives to CFOs, leads to better CFO job performance in providing high-quality financial reports. The analyses support our prediction: the treatment firms, which start disclosing CFO compensation information under the 2006 rule, compared to the control firms, which already disclose CFO compensation before 2006, experience an improvement in CFO performance, as exhibited in decreases in accounting misstatements and unexplained audit fees. The results are more pronounced for firms with concentrated ownership, smaller compensation committees, and CFOs subject to weaker monitoring by audit committees. Overall, we provide evidence of a real effect resulting from mandatory CFO compensation disclosure.

Keywords: SEC compensation-disclosure mandate, accounting misstatements, unexplained audit fees, CFO performance, real effects of disclosure regulations

JEL Classification: G38, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Dichu and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Zhang, Yong, The Real Effects of Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from Mandatory CFO Compensation Disclosure (May 20, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4116968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler
Theory, research design assumptions, and causal inferences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 366 - 373 Posted: 2018
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
315,603
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies