Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Reclassifications and Bank Recapitalization during the Financial Crisis

Management Science, forthcoming: https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2022.4364

69 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2022

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Ulf Brüggemann

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

Regulators frequently relax accounting rules during a financial crisis as a means of regulatory forbearance. The new accounting options provide banks with an opportunity for an accrual-based increase in their regulatory capital. The use of such an accounting option helps reduce the costs of government interventions such as bailouts and avoid the dilution of existing shareholders’ ownership rights. We examine the introduction of the reclassification option for financial assets during the 2008 financial crisis and study the position of accrual-based options in the pecking order of banks’ recapitalization measures. The findings suggest that the accruals-based increase in regulatory capital is temporary and does not provide permanent relief. Consistent with the long-term costs of accrual-based measures, investors perceive the accounting choice as a negative signal. If banks do not complement their use of the accounting option by other corrective actions that result in a real capital increase and a liquidity injection, they continue to suffer from low capitalization and financial difficulties in the following years. Ultimately, government interventions in accounting regulation are unlikely to offer a sustainable solution to capital shortfalls in the banking sector if they are not supported by the concurrent enforcement of real corrective actions.

Keywords: Bank Regulation, Fair Value Accounting, Financial Crisis, Recapitalization, Reclassifications, Regulatory Capital

JEL Classification: G14, G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Brüggemann, Ulf and Daske, Holger, Asset Reclassifications and Bank Recapitalization during the Financial Crisis (April 5, 2022). Management Science, forthcoming: https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2022.4364, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4116099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
V V Acharya , L Borchert , M Jager , S Steffen
Kicking the can down the road: government interventions in the European banking sector
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 4090 - 4131 Posted: 2021
V Acharya , I Drechsler , P Schnabl
A Pyrrhic Victory? Bank Bailouts and Sovereign Credit Risk
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 6 , p. 2689 - 2739 Posted: 2014
V V Acharya , H T Le , H S Shin
Bank capital and dividend externalities. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 988 - 1018 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
8,509
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies