Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Function and Financial Reporting Quality: Study of the Sri Lankan Banking Industry

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021)

15 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Sewwandi W.A.U.

University of Colombo

Abeygunasekera A.W.J.C.

University of Colombo

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

The importance of the Internal Audit Function (IAF) is continuously increasing in the current business context and among the research community. The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between the Internal Audit Function (IAF) and Financial Reporting Quality (FRQ) in the Banking Industry of Sri Lanka. The study used a quantitative approach with the survey method as the primary data collection method. Respondents were internal auditors of 18 banks. Four sub hypotheses to examine the relationship among IAF and external audit, and eight sub hypotheses to examine the relationship between the IAF and fraudulent FR were formulated. The study mainly used regression models for data analysis. A significant relationship between IAF and external audits exists, with all four variables positively correlating to FRQ in banks. A significant relationship between the IAF and fraudulent FR exists, with all eight variables correlating to FRQ in banks (collaboration having a negative correlation). Both these relationships increase FRQ. As one of the initial studies investigating the impact of the IAF on the FRQ in Sri Lankan banks, this study promotes the importance of focusing on the IAF in the banking industry to influence the FRQ of banks. The management and boards of directors in the banks, bank regulators, and investors can identify the link between IAF and FRQ and the importance of focusing on stakeholder requirements. The paper also extends banking literature in terms of FRQ.

Keywords: Banking industry, Corporate governance, Financial reporting quality, Internal audit, Sri Lanka

Suggested Citation:

W.A.U., Sewwandi and A.W.J.C., Abeygunasekera, Internal Audit Function and Financial Reporting Quality: Study of the Sri Lankan Banking Industry (November 11, 2021). Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2015
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
W O Abuazza , D G Mihret , K James , P Best
The perceived scope of internal audit function in Libyan public enterprises
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 30 , issue 6-7 , p. 560 - 581 Posted: 2015
M B Adams
Agency theory and the internal audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,193
RANK
213,039
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies