Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Consequences of Reputational Damage: Evidence from Government Economic Incentives

Blank, D. B., Hadley, B., & Unsal, O. (2021). Financial consequences of reputational damage: Evidence from government economic incentives. Financial Review, 56(4), 693-719.

Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Brian Blank

Mississippi State University

Brandy Hadley

Appalachian State University - Finance, Banking & Insurance

Omer Unsal

Merrimack College - Girard School of Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

We investigate and quantify the financial consequences of corporate reputation by using manually assembled litigation, fraud, and cyberattack data from 2000 to 2018 to measure reputation changes following events that are often tied to public scrutiny. We examine the role of reputation in government subsidy awards and find reputational damage is linked to lower subsidies and Mega Deals, particularly tax‐related and state government awards. Moreover, subsidies only relate to higher firm value for firms without reputational damage. Our findings suggest that reputation is an important determinant of relatively opaque economic incentive awards and that reputational damage constrains the benefits thereof.

Keywords: corporate reputation and political economy, cybersecurity and data breach, financial fraud and violations, government subsidy awards, securities litigation

JEL Classification: G32, H71, M14

Suggested Citation:

Blank II, Douglas Brian and Hadley, Brandy and Unsal, Omer, Financial Consequences of Reputational Damage: Evidence from Government Economic Incentives (2021). Blank, D. B., Hadley, B., & Unsal, O. (2021). Financial consequences of reputational damage: Evidence from government economic incentives. Financial Review, 56(4), 693-719., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117791
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies