Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Agency Costs in Non-Financial Listed Companies in Sri Lanka

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021)

12 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Weerapperuma A.D.A.P.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Panditharathna K.M.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this research study is to analyze the corporate governance mechanisms on agency costs in Sri Lankan listed firms. To analyze this effect, board size, board independence, remuneration, and managerial ownership are considered as effective governance mechanisms in this study. The study adopted a quantitative research approach and panel data analysis was used to estimate the association between corporate governance and agency costs, using data of 50 non-financial listed firms in Colombo Stock Exchange during 2016-2019 from the annual reports. The empirical results indicated that board size, independent directors on the board, and managerial ownership have negative impact on the assets utilization ratio while the firm size is negatively related to the assets utilization ratio. But remuneration and leverage has a positive impact on agency cost. Evidence of this study revealed that there is a significant relationship between corporate governance mechanisms and agency costs in Sri Lanka. This study supports key shareholders, managers, and other on how internal corporate governance practices affect to minimize conflict of interest between principal and agent.

Keywords: agency theory, corporate governance, stakeholder theory, stewardship theory

Suggested Citation:

A.D.A.P., Weerapperuma and K.M., Panditharathna, Corporate Governance and Agency Costs in Non-Financial Listed Companies in Sri Lanka (November 11, 2021). Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanisms to Control Agency Problem between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quntitative Analysis Posted: 1996
Amir Hossein , Nozari , Bahareh Nozari
The Imapact of Corporate Governance Mechanisms on Agency Cost of Free Cash Flows in Listed Manufacturing Firms of Theran Stock Exchange
Indian Journal of Fundamental and Applied Life Sciences , volume 5 , issue S1 , p. 4218 - 4226 Posted: 2015
J S Ang , R A Cole , J Wuh Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Corpoarate governanc and firm performance; Evidence from Sri Lanka
Journal of Finance and Bank Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 180 - 189 Posted: 2015-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
627,127
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies