Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for High Performing Employee Services as Right of Use Asset: Implications for  Nonprofessional Investors’ Judgments

56 Pages Posted: 23 May 2022

Akwasi Ampofo

University of Connecticut

Reza Barkhi

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University

Joseph Nketia

St. Edward's University

Abstract

We propose accounting for high performing employee services as a right of use asset on the balance sheet and examine the decision-usefulness of the proposed financial statement information to nonprofessional investors (NPIs). We also compare the right of use employee services asset (ROU ESA) proposal with existing accounting for employee compensation under FASB ASC 710 to examine the extent to which our proposal provides NPIs with incremental information that is decision-useful in assessing investment opportunity and likelihood to invest in a company’s stock. We analyze one hundred and fifty-five usable responses of which 84 are in the FASB ASC 710 (control) and 71 are in the ROU ESA (treatment) conditions. Results indicate that accounting for high performing employees as a ROU ESA intangible asset presented on the balance sheet, measured at fair value, or amortized cost with enhanced disaggregation and roll forward disclosures provide decision-useful information to NPIs. The likelihood to invest in a company’s stock significantly increases if ROU ESA is measured at fair value with changes recorded in net income. Accounting under FASB ASC 710 and ROU ESA provide decision-useful information that is statistically similar to NPIs.

Keywords: Right of use asset, high performers, decision-usefulness, nonprofessional investors, resource-based theory

Suggested Citation:

Ampofo, Akwasi and Barkhi, Reza and Nketia, Joseph, Accounting for High Performing Employee Services as Right of Use Asset: Implications for  Nonprofessional Investors’ Judgments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
H Aguinis , O'boyle Jr , E
Star performers in twenty-first century organizations
Personnel Psychology , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 350 Posted: 2014
T L Albright , C M Burgess
Best Practices of High-Performing Employees: Rewards and Performance in a Balanced Scorecard Environment
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 59 - 65 Posted: 2013
J B Barney
Resource-based theories of competitive advantage: A ten-year retrospective on the resource-based view
Journal of management , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 643 - 650 Posted: 2001
L A Bebchuk , K M Cremers , U C Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
708,207
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies