Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of CEO Characteristics on Capital Structure of Non-Financial Listed Companies in Sri Lanka

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021)

19 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

De Silva L.G.R.V.

University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Sri Lanka

Weerakoon Banda Yatiwella

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

The capital structure determinants include observable and unobservable components. Under the unobservable component, CEO characteristics are vital since CEOs are the topmost level managers who have significant influential decision-making power towards the firm capital structure. Therefore, this study examines the impact of CEO characteristics on the capital structure of listed non-financial companies in Sri Lanka. Due to the lack of prior empirical studies of this nature focusing on Sri Lanka; this research will make a valuable contribution to local literature and mitigate the gap evident in the frontier market setting. The sample of the study consisted of 123 mainboard listed companies that cover all non-financial sectors of the Colombo Stock Exchange for eight years from 2012 to 2019; and 6 CEO characteristic variables were empirically tested employing a regression model. The study reveals male CEOs variable is significant and having a positive relationship with debt financing which suggests male CEOs employ more debt due to their aggressive nature behavior compared to females. Similarly, CEO age is a significant variable and is found to be having a positive relationship with debt financing which indicates that CEOs employ more debt in the capital structure based on their experiences and business knowledge. These findings will help to appoint key decision-makers to run the organization and make appropriate strategic choices. The study hasn’t incorporated other CEO characteristics such as risk appetite levels which may have implications and have not considered the impact on the real financing decisions.

Keywords: Capital Structure, CEO Characteristics, Non-Finance Companies, Sri Lanka, Upper Echelon Theory

Suggested Citation:

L.G.R.V., De Silva and Yatiwella, Weerakoon Banda, Impact of CEO Characteristics on Capital Structure of Non-Financial Listed Companies in Sri Lanka (November 11, 2021). Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
N L E Abeywardene , Y K Weerakoon
Impact of Observable Determinants and Unobservable effect on capital Structure: Evidence from Quoted Public Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka
The International Journal of Business & Management , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 150 - 158 Posted: 2015
J Abor
Determinants of the capital structure of Ghanaian firms
African Economic Research Consortium , volume 176 Posted: 2008
S Akhtar , B Oliver
Determinants of capital structure for Japanese multinational and domestic corporations
International Review of Finance , volume 9 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2009
R M Alqatamin
Capital structure and CEO's personal characteristics: evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Academic Research Accounting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 125 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
369,949
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies