Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Patterns of Textual Characteristics in the Chairman’s Statement and Company Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka.

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021)

18 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Rosa S. J. S.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Kawshalya M.D.P.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

Corporate annual reports are continuously becoming important in external reporting. The chairman’s statement is one of leading sections of annual report that provides information beyond what is required by legislative. It is well-known that, those who prepare financial statements are motivated to exercise the content of chairman’s statements. This research investigates the textual differences of chairman’s statement in companies with higher performance and poor performance in terms of market capitalization, since chairman’s statement being a prominent requirement of annual report in Sri Lanka. The research question is investigated by examining a range of textual characteristics in the chairman’s statements of 25 companies with highest market capitalization and 25 companies with lowest market capitalization listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The results of the current study indicate that content of chairman’s statement is significantly affected by firm’s underlying performance. Since, chairman’s statement is one of most widely read section of annual report, this study will provide an understanding and guidelines to the stakeholders who make decisions regarding organizations by reading chairman’s statement.

Keywords: Chairman’s statement, Colombo Stock Exchange, Company performance, Sri Lanka, Textual characteristics

Suggested Citation:

S. J. S., Rosa and M.D.P., Kawshalya, Differential Patterns of Textual Characteristics in the Chairman’s Statement and Company Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka. (November 11, 2021). Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
E Abrahamson , E L I Amir
The Information Content of the President ' S Letter to Shareholders , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1994
B A Antal , M Dierkes , K Macmillan , L Marz
Corporate Social Reporting Revisited by , volume 28 Posted: 1986
W M Badenhorst , L M Brümmer , J H V H De Wet
The value-relevance of listed associates: a cross-country investigation
South African Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 78 Posted: 2016
S A Bartlett , R O Y A Chandler
The Corporate Report and the Private Shareholder : Lee And Tweedie Twenty Years ON , p. 245 - 261 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
708,207
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies