Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bonus Incentives and Losses from Early Debt Extinguishment

International Review of Financial Analysis 91, 103018, 2024

61 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2022

Jae Hwan Ahn

Inha University - College of Business Administration; Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Sunhwa Choi

Seoul National University - Business School

Gi H. Kim

Warwick Business School - University of Warwick

Sewon Kwon

Ewha Womans University-School of business

Date Written: Mar 28, 2022

Abstract

An increasing number of firms repurchase debt and recognize associated accounting losses (rather than gains). However, few studies to date have examined the effect of reporting incentives on debt repurchase decisions. We examine the relation between managers’ bonus incentives and the recognition of gains or losses from early debt extinguishment (EDE). We find that managers tend to recognize disproportionately more losses from EDE when earnings before gains or losses from EDE (i.e., as-if earnings) are above the maximum performance level set in annual bonus contracts. These results are consistent with the notion that managers’ income-decreasing reporting incentives affect debt repurchases. Further analyses indicate that bonus-driven debt repurchases are associated with increases in future bonus awards, but do not significantly affect shareholder value. Overall, our results suggest that managers’ bonus incentives are an important determinant of debt repurchases and the resulting loss recognition.

Keywords: Early debt extinguishment, loss recognition, bonus contracts, managerial incentives, income-reporting incentives, non-recurring losses.

JEL Classification: G32, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jae Hwan and Choi, Sunhwa and Kim, Gi Hyun and Kwon, Sewon, Bonus Incentives and Losses from Early Debt Extinguishment (Mar 28, 2022). International Review of Financial Analysis 91, 103018, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4119470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4119470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: The role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 2-3 , p. 216 - 251 Posted: 2008
D Adut , W Cready , T Lopez
Restructuring charges and CEO cash compensation: A reexamination
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 192 Posted: 2003
S Balsam , Y Gu , C X Mao
Creditor influence and CEO compensation: Evidence from debt covenant violations
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 50 Posted: 2018
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
484,103
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies