Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stressed About Money: The Effect of Employee Financial Pressure on Financial Reporting Outcomes

Babak Mammadov, Avishek Bhandari; Stressed About Money: The Effect of Employee Financial Pressure on Financial Reporting Outcomes. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2022; doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-19-045

57 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2022

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Babak Mammadov

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Date Written: May 25, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of employee financial stress on financial reporting outcomes. Anxiety related to stress results in emotional exhaustion and reduced job performance. The conservation of resources theory predicts that anxiety caused by financial stress decreases employees’ work quality because anxiety drains individuals’ physical, cognitive, and psychological resources. Motivated by the conservation of resources theory, we expect and find that employee financial stress negatively affects financial reporting outcomes. Consistent with this prediction, we determine that employee financial stress is positively associated with material internal control weaknesses and restatements. The results are statistically and economically significant, and the results continue to hold after using alternative measures of employee financial stress and financial reporting quality. We conduct additional analyses to address endogeneity issues, and the inferences remain the same.

Keywords: financial reporting quality, internal control weakness, restatement, accruals quality, employee financial stress

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Avishek and Mammadov, Babak, Stressed About Money: The Effect of Employee Financial Pressure on Financial Reporting Outcomes (May 25, 2022). Babak Mammadov, Avishek Bhandari; Stressed About Money: The Effect of Employee Financial Pressure on Financial Reporting Outcomes. AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2022; doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-19-045, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4119682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4119682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
Stress in America: Paying With Our Health survey Posted: 2015
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
S C Asthana , J P Boone
Abnormal audit fee and audit quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2012
D A Bens , T H Goodman , M Neamtiu
Does investment-related pressure lead to misreporting? An analysis of reporting following M&A transactions
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 3 , p. 839 - 865 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,414
RANK
170,545
4 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies