Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Political Ideologies and Auditor-Client Contracting

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 39(5), 106755, 2020

61 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2022

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Maya Thevenot

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether CEOs’ political ideology, as captured by their political contributions, is related to audit risk and, consequently, to audit pricing. We find that Republican CEOs are associated with lower inherent risk and control risk, which represent the two components of audit risk related to the firm, while their Democratic counterparts are seen to have higher risks. Consequently, Republican (Democratic) CEOs are associated with lower (higher) audit fees. The results are robust to controlling for religiosity, executive incentives and ability, obtaining alternative measures of inherent and control risk, and to using propensity score matching and entropy balancing. We further show that changes in political ideology are associated with changes in audit risk and fees. In sum, the evidence implies that auditors view the political ideology of CEOs as an important determinant of engagement risk, which may have important implications for disclosure policy.

Keywords: CEO political ideologies, political ideology, financial reporting quality, restatement, auditor-client contracting, audit quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Avishek and Golden, Joanna and Thevenot, Maya, CEO Political Ideologies and Auditor-Client Contracting (2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 39(5), 106755, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4120798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Audit.: J. Pract. Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
S Ansolabehere , J M De Figueiredo , J M Snyder , Jr
Why is there so little money in U.S. politics?
J. Econ. Perspect , volume 17 , p. 105 - 130 Posted: 2003
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
Acc. Rev , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
P R Beaulieu
The effects of judgments of new clients' integrity upon risk judgments, audit evidence, and fees. Audit
J. Pract. Theory , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 99 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
618,599
6 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies