Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Auditors’ Early Judgment Responses Shape Their Year-end Going Concern Reporting Judgments

44 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2022 Last revised: 16 Apr 2025

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

Date Written: April 16, 2025

Abstract

When auditors form a preliminary judgment at interim, how they formalize or communicate the judgment can become a part of the judgment process itself, shaping their year-end decisions. In our experiment, experienced auditors evaluate interim and year-end information for a distressed company, and make a year-end going concern judgment, allowing us to examine whether and how auditors’ responses to management’s quarterly going concern evaluations affect auditors’ year-end reporting decisions. We investigate whether two possible responses—communicating a preliminary judgment to management or documenting it in the audit workpapers—affect the likelihood of issuing a going concern opinion. Findings indicate that engaging in either or both response(s) increases this likelihood, and that the responses have an additive (i.e., rather than complementary or interactive) effect. Our results suggest that encouraging auditors to engage in either response can reduce their reluctance to issue going concern opinions, providing guidance to audit firms and policymakers on best practices. 

Keywords: going concern, auditor reporting, standard-setting, FASB ASC 205-40

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Lambert, Tamara A. and Peytcheva, Marietta, How Auditors’ Early Judgment Responses Shape Their Year-end Going Concern Reporting Judgments (April 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120500 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4120500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
C A Anderson
Imagination and expectation: The effect of imagining behavioral scripts on personal influences
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 305 Posted: 1983
A G Barnett , J C Van Der Pols , A J Dobson
Regression to the mean: What it is and how to deal with it
International Journal of Epidemiology , volume 34 , p. 215 - 220 Posted: 2005
R J Bies
The delivery of bad news in organizations: A framework for analysis
Journal of Management , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 162 Posted: 2013
J R Brown , Jr
Statement Regarding the PCAOB's Revised Research and Standard-Setting Agendas: Reducing Credibility, Accountability and Confidence in the Financial Reporting Process Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,311
RANK
299,785
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies