Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of CEO Power on Investment Efficiency: Evidence from China

46 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2022 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Muhammad Ansar Majeed

Zhejiang Gongshang University

Irfan Ullah

Jiangxi Normal University

Date Written: October 11, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the effect of CEO power in shaping corporate investment decisions. Exploiting a unique Chinese setting, we document a negative association between CEO power and investment efficiency. However, financial constraints improve investment decisions by powerful CEOs. Moreover, the negative effect of CEO power is significant for male CEOs only. Additionally, the impact of CEO power is insignificant during the global financial crisis but remains significant during the non-crisis period. External governance role played by analyst following and media coverage improves the firm’s investment decisions with powerful CEOs. Our results lend support to agency perspective and strategic choice view.

Keywords: CEO power, investment efficiency, financial constraints, CEO gender, China.

JEL Classification: G 32, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Majeed, Muhammad Ansar and Ullah, Irfan, Impact of CEO Power on Investment Efficiency: Evidence from China (October 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4120396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Empire-builders and shirkers: Investment, firm performance, and managerial incentives
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 515 Posted: 2006
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Y Altunbaş , J Thornton , Y Uymaz
The effect of CEO power on bank risk: Do boards and institutional investors matter?
Finance Research Letters , volume 33 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
298,527
2 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies