Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Emissions, Corporate Governance, and Staggered Boards

35 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022

Suparatana Tanthanongsakkun

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: May 26, 2022

Abstract

Exploiting a novel data set in which the presence of a staggered board is identified through advanced machine learning algorithms and textual analysis, we explore how corporate carbon emissions are affected by staggered boards (or classified boards), which represent one of the most controversial governance mechanisms. Our results suggest that staggered boards bring about significantly worse emission performance. Specifically, when the board is staggered, there is a decline in emission performance by 10.67%. Our results corroborate the premise that staggered boards insulate self-interested managers from market discipline and thus exacerbate agency problems, resulting in more unfavorable outcomes. Further analysis validates the results, i.e., propensity score matching, entropy balancing, instrumental-variable analysis, and dynamic panel data estimation. Importantly, we include firm fixed effects to account for unobserved heterogeneity. Our findings aptly contribute to the fierce and on-going debate in the literature over the costs and benefits of staggered boards. We show that governance structure plays an important role in shaping, not only business strategies in general, but also environmental strategies in particular.

Keywords: carbon emissions, staggered boards, classified boards, ESG, corporate governance, agency theory

JEL Classification: Q01, O13, G34

Suggested Citation:

Tanthanongsakkun, Suparatana and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Jiraporn, Pornsit, Carbon Emissions, Corporate Governance, and Staggered Boards (May 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4120632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance☆
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
M Amorelli , I García-Sánchez
Trends in the dynamic evolution of board gender diversity and corporate social responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 537 - 554 Posted: 2020
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
T G Arun , Y E Almahrog , Z Ali Aribi
Female directors and earnings management: Evidence from UK companies , volume 39 , p. 137 - 146 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
362,694
5 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies