Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Favoritism and Careers

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17235

35 Pages Posted: 27 May 2022

Marco Pagano

- Centre for Studies in Economics and Finance (CSEF); Einaudi Institute for Economics and Finance (EIEF); Research Institute of Industrial Economics (IFN); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Luca Picariello

- Centre for Studies in Economics and Finance (CSEF); University of Naples Federico II

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

Careers are often shaped by favoritism, even though this undermines the performance of firms. When controlling shareholders weigh the efficiency costs of favoritism against its private benefits, the quality of corporate governance enhances meritocratic promotions and so encourages workers' skill acquisition. The impact of labor market competition, however, is ambiguous: by raising wages upon promotion, it fosters the supply of skilled labor but lowers the demand for it. With endogenous skill acquisition, there are multiple equilibria, and social welfare increases with the share of meritocratic firms. This brings out a new efficiency rationale for enhancing the quality of corporate governance.

Keywords: careers, corporate governance, favoritism, Job selection, merit, skill development

JEL Classification: D21, D23, M50, M51

Suggested Citation:

Pagano, Marco and Picariello, Luca, Corporate Governance, Favoritism and Careers (April 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17235, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121418
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
27 References
V Acharya , P Volpin
Corporate Governance Externalities. Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
H Bar-Isaac , R Levy
Motivating Employees through Career Paths
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , p. 95 - 131 Posted: 2022
G Becker
The Economics of Discrimination Posted: 1957
G S Becker
Nobel Lecture: The Economic Way of Looking at Behavior
Journal of Political Economy , volume 101 , p. 385 - 409 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies