Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Competition: Evidence from the Airline Industry

52 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022 Last revised: 21 Mar 2025

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Rachel Yoon

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: March 21, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines whether tax cuts improve the competitive position of high-tax burden firms (proxied by profitable airlines) relative to that of low-tax burden firms (proxied by loss-making airlines). High-tax firms derive larger cash tax savings from tax cuts relative to low-tax firms. We examine whether such tax savings enable high-tax firms to lower prices and gain market share from their low-tax competitors that do not benefit as much from tax cuts. Using granular data on prices and market share from the airline industry, we find that the 1986 Tax Reform Act (TRA) that cut the top corporate income tax rate by 12 percentage points is followed by a 4.2% decrease in the relative ticket prices of profitable airlines compared to those of loss-making airlines, operating in the same route and period. Further, the tax cut is followed by a 3.3 percentage point increase in the market share of profitable airlines. In addition, the TRA leads to an increase in the number of profitable (loss-making) airlines entering (exiting) predicted markets. Our treatment effects are stronger in markets where the incumbent loss-making airlines are financially constrained, and thus are less able to fight a price war. Our results are consistent with tax cuts providing a competitive advantage to high-tax burden firms at the expense of low-tax burden firms, especially those that are financially constrained.

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Shroff, Nemit and Yoon, Rachel, Taxes and Competition: Evidence from the Airline Industry (March 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,208
RANK
130,913
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies