Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Taxes and the Allocation of Capital

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17228

47 Pages Posted: 27 May 2022

Charles Boissel

Independent

Adrien Matray

Princeton University

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the 2013 three-fold increase in the French dividend tax rate. Using administrative data covering the universe of firms over 2008-2017 and a quasi-experimental setting, we find that firms swiftly cut dividend payments and used this tax-induced increase in liquidity to invest more. Heterogeneity analyses show that firms with high demand and returns on capital responded most while no group of firms cut their investment. Our results reject models in which higher dividend taxes increase the cost of capital and show that the tax-induced increase in liquidity relaxes credit constraints which can reduce capital misallocation.

Keywords: capital misallocation, corporate taxes

JEL Classification: G11, G32, H25, O16

Suggested Citation:

Boissel, Charles and Matray, Adrien, Dividend Taxes and the Allocation of Capital (April 1, 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121404
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
47 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob , Roni Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
J D Angrist , Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 433 - 446 Posted: 1979
Laurent Bach , Antoine Bozio , Brice Fabre , Arthur Guillouzouic , Claire Leroy , Clement Malgouyres
Follow the money! Combining household and firm-level evidence to unravel the tax elasticity of dividends
Working Paper , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2019
Malcolm Baker , Stefan Nagel , Jeffrey Wurgler
The effect of dividends on consumption
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 1 , p. 231 - 276 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
14 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies