Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance: International Evidence

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17267

61 Pages Posted: 27 May 2022

Shira Cohen

San Diego State University

Igor Kadach

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Stefan Reichelstein

Stanford University

There are 5 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the use of ESG performance metrics in executive compensation contracts. We first document that a growing fraction of publicly traded companies around the world now incorporate ESG metrics in the compensation schemes of their top executives. Our analysis links the reliance on these metrics to firm fundamentals, the geographic location of firms as well as the influence of institutional shareholders. Our findings also suggest that the adoption of ESG variables in managerial performance measures is accompanied by improvements in ESG performance and meaningful changes in the compensation of executives.

Keywords: ESG metrics, Executive compensation, Institutional Ownership

JEL Classification: M12, M41, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Shira and Kadach, Igor and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Reichelstein, Stefan, Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance: International Evidence (April 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17267, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121450
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
47 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
M Atif , M Hossain , S Alam , M Goergen
Does board gender diversity affect renewable energy consumption
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The big three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
29 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies