Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Euroland Foods 2024

Darden Case No. UVA-F-2016

Posted: 31 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Jun 2025

Michael J. Schill

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Robert F. Bruner

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Casey Opitz

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

Facing strong pressure from investors to improve financial performance and preserve capital, senior management at Euroland Foods must select which projects to fund across a slate of major investment proposals for 2021. While the board of directors has imposed a limit of EUR120 million for the company budget, various managers have proposed projects totaling EUR316 million. The task for students is to evaluate each proposal's financial attributes and qualitative factors (mainly strategic considerations and internal company politics), then choose the projects to be approved.This case presents two alternative modes of delivery: (1) a standard case discussion; or (2) a role-play exercise with a debriefing. The teaching note includes role-playing character descriptions for distribution to students and describes both modes of delivery. The different viewpoints of the company managers featured in these character descriptions is a unique aspect of this case, which affords students the opportunity to grapple with some aspects of capital budgeting that they don't normally encounter. The multifunctional aspect of this case affords an opportunity for a finance instructor to coteach it with an organizational behavior instructor. Points of linkage are in the areas of group leadership and the assessment and management of group decision-making processes. The case is suitable for intermediate corporate finance courses.

Excerpt

May 18, 2022

Euroland Foods 2021

In early January 2021, the senior management committee of Euroland Foods (Euroland) was to meet to draw up the firm's capital budget for the new year. Up for consideration were 11 major projects that totaled more than EUR316million in a context where the board of directors had imposed a spending limit on capital projects of EUR120million. Even at the limited rate, investment of EUR120 million would represent a major increase to the firm's current asset base of EUR965million. The challenge for Euroland's senior managers was to allocate funds among a range of compelling projects: new product introduction, acquisition, market expansion, efficiency improvements, preventive maintenance, safety, and pollution control.

The Company

. . .

Keywords: resource allocation, company management, capital budgeting, capital rationing, capital investment, investment analysis, net present value, NPV, internal rate of return, IRR, risk-adjusted discount rate, profitability index, financial decision-making, company politics, payback criterion, equivalent annuity, cash flow, time value of money, risk assessment, strategy, role play

Suggested Citation:

Schill, Michael J. and Bruner, Robert F. and Opitz, Casey, Euroland Foods 2024. Darden Case No. UVA-F-2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121701
Purchase - $6.25
1 References
Please do not copy or redistribute. Additional materials may be available at store.darden.virginia.edu. Contact permissions@dardenbusinesspublishing.com for permissions
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
883
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies