Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entrepreneurial Ecosystems As Amplifiers of The Lean Startup Philosophy – Management Control Practices In Earliest-Stage Startups

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2022-1457

65 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2022 Last revised: 9 Dec 2022

Sebastian D. Becker

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Christoph Endenich

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 27, 2022

Abstract

Entrepreneurial ecosystems play a key role in the development of startups by not only providing support – such as flexible office space and access to skilled employees, mentors and investors – but moreover by promoting concrete ideals about ‘good’ entrepreneurship. In our empirical analysis of management control systems (MCSs) in earliest-stage startups, we witness a strong influence of such ideals – above all the Lean Startup philosophy – on the MCSs analyzed. Building on cross-sectional field study data resulting from a comprehensive field-immersion strategy and 50 interviews with key actors in an entrepreneurial ecosystem as well as with founder-managers of startups, we consider the entrepreneurial ecosystem as a collective meso-level community that mediates between macro-level institutional pressures and micro-level practices of startups. We show how this community – through a variety of what we term amplifying mechanisms – not only actively deinstitutionalizes a legacy entrepreneurial philosophy epitomized by the business plan concept but propagates the Lean Startup philosophy so that this alternative has become the dominant institutional philosophy in the studied ecosystem and its startups. Due to the amplifying mechanisms exerted by the meso-level, startups use MCSs that play a crucial role in the rapid experimentation and learning process towards finding a scalable business model that is characteristic of the Lean Startup philosophy. We theorize this role of MCSs through the lenses of interactive and enabling control systems and make these concepts amenable to multi-level entrepreneurial settings.

Keywords: Management control systems, lean startup, ecosystem, incubator, entrepreneurship, business model innovation

JEL Classification: M10, M13, M40

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Sebastian D. and Endenich, Christoph, Entrepreneurial Ecosystems As Amplifiers of The Lean Startup Philosophy – Management Control Practices In Earliest-Stage Startups (May 27, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2022-1457, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
M Abernethy , J Bouwens
Determinants of accounting innovation implementation
Abacus , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 217 - 240 Posted: 2005
P S Adler , B Borys
Two types of bureaucracy: Enabling and coercive
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 89 Posted: 1996
P S Adler , C X Chen
Combining creativity and control: Understanding individual motivation in large-scale collaborative creativity
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 85 Posted: 2011
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 302 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
288,800
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies