Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Access to Capital Markets and the Geography of Productivity of Leaders and Laggards

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17275

65 Pages Posted: 27 May 2022

Giorgio Barba Navaretti

University of Milan - Department of Economics, Management and Quantitative Methods (DEMM); Centro Studi Luca d'Agliano (LdA)

Anna Rosso

University of Milan

Date Written: May 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether access to the capital market of convertible and non-convertible bonds affects total factor productivity (TFP) for the population of Italian joint stock manufacturing companies, based in highly segmented local financial markets, between 2007 and 2017. The hypothesis, well grounded in the literature, is that long term capital favours investment in intangibles and other risky assets necessary for productivity growth. In order to identify this effect, we exploit the exogenous shock of the Italian banking deregulation of the mid-Nineties as an instrument for firm level access to capital, interacted with distance from logistic networks. These reforms changed the distribution of the type of branches at the local level, increasing the share of joint stock banks, which have high connections to international capital markets. This geographical reallocation of banking activities ultimately affected firms' financial structure, favouring their access to capital, even when based in peripheral financial areas. Firms which issued instruments of market debt achieved higher levels of productivity and a higher probability to reach top percentiles of productivity distribution.

Keywords: Bank Deregulation, Capital Markets, Productivity, Regional Development

JEL Classification: G21, O4, R1

Suggested Citation:

Barba Navaretti, Giorgio and Rosso, Anna, Access to Capital Markets and the Geography of Productivity of Leaders and Laggards (May 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17275, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121459
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
72 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering? Posted: 2017
D A Ackerberg , K Caves , G Frazer
Identification properties of recent production function estimators
Econometrica , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 2411 - 2451 Posted: 2015
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and Private Information in Lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
P Aghion , G M Angeletos , A Banerjee , K Manova
Volatility and growth: Credit constraints and the composition of investment
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 246 - 265 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
255
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies