Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Signals of Big Oil: Exxonmobil Stumbles

Darden Case No. UVA-BC-0281

12 Pages Posted: 31 May 2022 Last revised: 19 Aug 2022

Meghan Murray

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Steve Soltis

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

In the summer of 2021, an Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) executive was secretly recorded dismissing climate science that his company had publicly supported. ExxonMobil is a vertically integrated business with decades of financial performance to consider. Recent activity at the organization—including activist investor action to change the board of directors' composition—coupled with years of confusion over climate science creates a complex situation with multiple stakeholders. By comparing ExxonMobil's performance to Apple Inc. (Apple) and other technology companies, it provides context for the moment of the crisis and asks readers to consider how to manage the communication complication. Students are challenged to consider nuance in their arguments and balance short-term shareholder returns with longer-term organizational pursuits.

Excerpt

Rev. Aug. 5, 2022

The Signals of Big Oil: ExxonMobil Stumbles

The Gotcha

In summer 2021, Keith McCoy, an executive in the federal lobbying team of Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) (NYSE: XOM), was caught on video calling into question the veracity of the company's lobbying strategies and positions on climate science. Climate change had created scrutiny of the world's oil companies, and McCoy had just made ExxonMobil an even bigger target.

. . .

Keywords: Exxon, Mobil, big oil, Greenpeace, Apple, shareholder returns, ESG, environmental social governance, climate science, global warming, communication, investor relations, ExxonMobil, climate change, online teaching, virtual teaching

Suggested Citation:

Murray, Meghan and Soltis, Steve, The Signals of Big Oil: Exxonmobil Stumbles. Darden Case No. UVA-BC-0281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121700
Purchase - $6.25
34 References
Umar Ali
Top Ten Companies by Oil Production Posted: 2019-05-14
CNN Money , volume 500 , p. 1955 - 2005 Posted: 2022-04-11
Fortune , volume 500 Posted: 2020
Timeline: Half a Century of Oil Price Volatility
Reuters Posted: 2008-11-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies