Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of International Experience in Audit Partners' Careers

54 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Lauren Matkaluk

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

Because audit firms have increasingly large international clients, they promote international experience among their personnel. We use interviews and empirical analyses to examine the implications of this experience. We conduct 22 semi-structured interviews with audit partners with prior international experience and four additional interviews with individuals without such experience. These interviewees provide insights about the reasons auditors obtain this experience, its benefits and challenges, and how it influences their audit work. Based on these interviews, we then empirically examine how international experience affects subsequent client assignments, audit outcomes, and partners’ careers. We find that international experience is associated with assignments to clients with more foreign operations, higher audit efficiency for global clients, and promotion to firm leadership roles. However, we find little evidence that international experience affects audit quality. Our study provides important implications for audit personnel and firms as they weigh the costs and benefits of international rotations and training.

Keywords: audit partners, international experience, secondments, audit quality, public accounting firms, professional service firms, careers

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Matkaluk, Lauren and Newton, Nathan J. and Pevzner, Mikhail and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, The Role of International Experience in Audit Partners' Careers (January 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
W Anding , M J Mowchan , T A Seidel , A Zimmerman
Audit Partners in Leadership Roles: Implications for Audit Quality. Working Paper Posted: 2024
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
O Bik , R Hooghiemstra
The effect of national culture on auditor-in-charge involvement
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2017
O Bik , R Hooghiemstra
Cultural differences in auditors' compliance with audit firm policy on fraud risk assessment procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
RANK
379,149
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies