Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain-based Life Cycle Assessment System for ESG Reporting

52 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2022

Lanxin Jiang

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Wenjun Yu

Shengang Securities Co., Ltd.

Jun Dai

Michigan Technological University

Date Written: May 28, 2022

Abstract

With the increasing popularity of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) reporting, doubts about the reliability and completeness of ESG disclosures also grow. Those concerns may be alleviated by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), a widely used approach for a complete and comprehensive evaluation of environmental impacts. However, LCA is limited in the areas of reliable data collection and management. Blockchain can solve this problem by reliably storing and distributing data from various sources without tampering via its decentralized and secure nature. This study aims to explore the influence of LCA and blockchain on ESG reporting. We propose a blockchain-based LCA system and demonstrate its potential applications using data regarding Tesla’s electric vehicles. The system automatically cross-validates ESG disclosures from companies of an entire value chain and generates an integrated report to present overall ESG performance. Our results shed light on utilizing emerging technologies to enable reliable, complete, and accurate ESG reporting.

Keywords: ESG, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), blockchain, smart contract, IoT

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Lanxin and Gu, Yu and Yu, Wenjun and Dai, Jun, Blockchain-based Life Cycle Assessment System for ESG Reporting (May 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S&P 500 ESG Index on Lack of Low Carbon Strategy, Controversy Risk -ESG Today 3 Source
Current non-financial reporting formats and practices
European financial reporting advisory group website Posted: 2021
Blockchain here can be considered as a kind of distributed database that can avoid the conflicts when multiple modifications are made simultaneously by different computers in the distributed database system
economytests/100890366?utm_campaign=abc_news_web&utm_content=link&utm_medium= content_shared&utm_source=abc_news_web 11 RPA is a form of business process automation technology based on metaphorical software robots operating on the user interface of other computer systems in the way a human would do (Van der Aalst et al Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,589
RANK
24,207
8 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies