Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing and Updating Cohen, Dey, and Lys’s (2008) Methodological Framework to Re-Examine the Relation between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management After SOX

Forthcoming at Journal of Financial Reporting

17 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022

Morton Pincus

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Shijia Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics

Date Written: May 28, 2022

Abstract

We respond to and rebut a number of comments in Daniel Cohen and Thomas Lys’s commentary (2022, this issue) (hereinafter CL) on our paper (Pincus, Wu, and Hwang, 2022, this issue), which re-examines and extends the research in Cohen, Dey, and Lys (2008) (hereinafter CDL). Specifically, we rebut most of the claims CL make regarding the lack of a conceptual framework and research design limitations, and we clarify CL’s misinterpretation on the inconsistency between our findings and prior published work. CL argue for the need to adjust the methodology that CDL employed, but fail to acknowledge the enhancements we made to CDL’s methodological framework, which enabled us to separate the substitution effects associated with the pre-SOX and post-SOX periods.

Keywords: accrual-based and real earnings management, SOX, re-examinations

Suggested Citation:

Pincus, Morton P.K. and Wu, Shijia, Enhancing and Updating Cohen, Dey, and Lys’s (2008) Methodological Framework to Re-Examine the Relation between Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management After SOX (May 28, 2022). Forthcoming at Journal of Financial Reporting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4122372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
W Chen , P Hribar , S Melessa
Incorrect inferences when using residuals as dependent variables
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 751 - 796 Posted: 2018
D Cohen , A Dey , T Lys
Real and accrual-based earnings management in the preand post-Sarbanes-Oxley periods
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 757 - 787 Posted: 2008
D Cohen , T Lys
Substitution between accrual-based earnings management and real activities manipulation -A commentary and guidance for future research
Journal of Financial Reporting Posted: 2022
R Ewert , A Wagenhofer
Economic effects of tightening accounting standards to restrict earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 1101 - 1124 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
461,853
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies