Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of Banking Investment in FinTech on Financial Performance: Evidence from Arab Banks

Conference of Finance and Accounting Department, Business Administration Division, International Academy for Engineering & Media Science, Mövenpick Hotel Cairo Media City-Egypt

Posted: 13 Jun 2022

Osama Wagdi

Management Sciences Department, Akhbar Alyom Academy

hafez farid

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 23, 2022

Abstract

The study investigated the impact of banking investment in FinTech on the financial performance of Arab banks based on the rate of return on assets (ROA) and the rate of return on equity (ROE). The study proposes a framework for evaluating banking investments in technology to maximize both the bank's profitability and market share. Evidence was gathered from 28 banks in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, and Bahrain, and the study spans the years 2017–2021. The study found the difference between the explanatory power of banking investment in FinTech on ROA and ROE; where the explanatory power based on adjusted R2 reached 26.1% for the change in the rate of return on assets without control variables but 46% within control variables; while the explanatory power based on adjusted R2 for the change in the rate of return on equity reached 0.4% without control variables. The difference in results between the impact on both ROA and ROE can be justified according to the different characteristics of the financing structure (financial leverage) between banks as well as the different structures of interest rates among Arab countries.

Keywords: banking, FinTech, Arab countries

Suggested Citation:

Wagdi, Osama and farid, hafez, The impact of Banking Investment in FinTech on Financial Performance: Evidence from Arab Banks (May 23, 2022). Conference of Finance and Accounting Department, Business Administration Division, International Academy for Engineering & Media Science, Mövenpick Hotel Cairo Media City-Egypt , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4123418
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies