Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Liberalization and R&D Disclosure: Evidence from China

45 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Zhi Jin

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Tingting Duan

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Bingxuan Lin

University of Rhode Island

Ke Xu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Using Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program as a quasi-natural experiment, we examine whether and how stock market liberalization affects companies’ R&D disclosure in China. Contrary to the positive impact of market liberalization on overall firm disclosure, we find that market liberalization reduces companies’ R&D disclosure. This effect is more prominent for companies with higher proprietary costs. We argue that firms adjust their R&D disclosure to protect their proprietary information. We also find that managers disclose R&D information strategically by reducing the quantity of R&D disclosure and increasing the level of optimism in disclosure.

Keywords: Market liberalization, Proprietary costs, R&D disclosure, Strategic reporting

JEL Classification: G18, G32, K42

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Zhi and Duan, Tingting and Lin, Bingxuan and Xu, Ke, Stock Market Liberalization and R&D Disclosure: Evidence from China (June 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4124807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4124807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of financial economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
R Albuquerque , G H Bauer , M Schneider
Global private information in international equity markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 46 Posted: 2009
K D Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product market competition, disclosure framing, and casting in earnings conference calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
502,079
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies