Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customers’ Response to Firms’ Disclosure of Social Stances: Evidence from Voting Reform Laws

Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies

62 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2022 Last revised: 15 Nov 2023

Hengda Jin

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Anish Sharma

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Karen Ton

Villanova University

Date Written: November 2023

Abstract

We examine customer responses to publicly traded firms speaking out in response to the state of Georgia's voting reform laws. For firms that speak out, we find that customer visits and visitors at their stores decrease relative to the stores of firms that do not speak out. The decrease in customer traffic is stronger for stores in Georgia, predominantly Republican counties, and for firms whose speaking out was emphasized by conservative media sources. The results are weaker for stores in counties with more diverse populations. We also find that total spending, spending per transaction, and spending per customer decrease after firms speak out. Our results are attributed to a decrease in traffic from less frequent customers who spend less time shopping but offset by customers who increase their shopping time. Consistent with offsetting effects, we do not find evidence that speaking out is associated with changes in firm-level financial performance or an equity market response. Our findings highlight different customer responses to speaking out that help us better understand the implications of companies’ engagement in societal issues.

Keywords: ESG; corporate activism; voting reform laws; customer behavior; big data

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Hengda and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Sharma, Anish and Ton, Karen, Customers’ Response to Firms’ Disclosure of Social Stances: Evidence from Voting Reform Laws (November 2023). Forthcoming, Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4124518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4124518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A I Abramowitz , K L Saunders
Is polarization a myth?
The Journal of Politics , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 542 - 555 Posted: 2008
J Bafumi , R Y Shapiro
A new partisan voter
The Journal of Politics , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2009
K Balakrishnan , R Copat , D De La Parra , K Ramesh
Social unrest as an impetus for racial diversity: Firm responses to the murder of George Floyd
Journal of Accounting Research Conference Posted: 2022
M Bedendo , L Siming
To advocate or not to advocate: determinants and financial consequences of CEO activism
British Journal of Management , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1062 - 1081 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,980
RANK
169,080
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies