Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate-Related Discussions in Firms’ 10-K: Who Does it and What is its Impact?

13 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2022

Sankarshan Basu

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Sharad Nath Bhattacharya

Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Shillong; Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Shillong

Mousami Bhattacharya

Indian Institute of Management, Mayurbhanj Complex, Nongthymmai

Jalaj Pathak

Indian Institute of Management Lucknow

Abstract

We examine the impact of climate-related discussions in the Management Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) section of the 10-K filings of S&P 500 firms from 2007 to 2018 and find that only firms from three specific industries (Energy, Utilities and Finance) have such discussions. We also find that the increase in mention of climate related words and ngrams is significantly associated with a fall in holding period return (HPR), post the filing date and especially post the Paris agreement. This suggests that investors perceive higher climate change discussion in a negative light even without any change in fundamentals.

Keywords: Climate Impact, Firm Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sankarshan and Bhattacharya, Sharad Nath and Bhattacharya, Mousami and Pathak, Jalaj, Climate-Related Discussions in Firms’ 10-K: Who Does it and What is its Impact?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4124881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4124881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Anand , J Pathak
The role of Reddit in the Gamestop short squeeze
Economics Letters , volume 211 Posted: 2022
S Battiston , Y Dafermos , I Monasterolo
Climate risks and financial stability Posted: 2021
S Benoit , J.-E Colliard , C Hurlin , C Pérignon
Where the risks lie: A survey on systemic risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 152 Posted: 2017
D Choi , Z Gao , W Jiang
Attention to global warming
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1112 - 1145 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Kyle S. Herman , Jun Xiang
US-SEC 10-k filings: Are Climate Commitments Commensurate with Performance? Empirical Assessment using Text Mining and Machine Learning Methods
32 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2024 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
560,264
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies