Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accounting Earnings Provide Useful Information for State Tax Revenue Forecasts?

89 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Anthony Welsch

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

State tax revenue forecasting is critical to states’ fiscal planning because many states have constitutions or laws that require a balanced budget and restrict borrowing to fund deficits. We develop and compare four measures of aggregate corporate earnings growth. We find that a state-specific industry-weighted measure of earnings growth predicts future state tax revenue growth, incremental to states’ actual forecasts (i.e., it increases explanatory power by a factor of 1.86). Earnings growth also improves states’ component forecasts of personal income, sales, and corporate income tax revenues. Also, we find that both forecast errors and lagged earnings growth can explain midyear spending cuts, suggesting that there are real consequences to omitting earnings growth from tax revenue forecasts. Because accurate revenue forecasts are necessary for the efficient allocation of government resources, these findings should be useful to those who prepare, monitor, or are otherwise affected by state tax revenue forecasts and budgets.

Keywords: revenue forecasts, state taxes and financial reporting, corporate tax, sales tax, revenue estimation.

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H71, M41

Suggested Citation:

Welsch, Anthony and Williams, Braden and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F., Do Accounting Earnings Provide Useful Information for State Tax Revenue Forecasts? (December 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4125305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4125305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Abdalla , J Carabias
From accounting to economics: The role of aggregate special items in gauging the state of the economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
S Andersen , R May , T Kerr , K Pasquinto-Frates , J Keller
State Government Tax Collections Summary Report: 2019. U.S. Census Bureau Report released Posted: 2020-05-01
P Anderson
The Value of Private Businesses in the United States
Business Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 108 Posted: 2009
S Baker , S T Sun , C Yannelis
Corporate taxes and retail prices Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
246,297
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies