Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rolling Back Dodd-Frank: Investors’ and Banks’ Responses to Financial Market Deregulation

65 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Michael H.R. Erkens

Nyenrode Business University; Erasmus School of Economics; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Ying Gan

Erasmus University Rotterdam - Erasmus School of Economics; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Studying key events related to the repeal of Dodd-Frank policies we find that banking deregulation can create shareholder value. We document positive stock returns for banks around these events. The returns are larger for small banks with assets below $10 billion suggesting that their shareholders expect greater benefits. Furthermore, we observe improvements in capital strength and accounting performance, an expansion in external financing and lending activity, and positive asset growth for only small banks. The eased regulation for large banks with assets above $50 billion likely made small banks more willing to grow again and cross the $10 billion threshold.

Keywords: Deregulation, Dodd-Frank Act, financial crisis, financial institutions, market reaction

JEL Classification: G2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Erkens, Michael H.R. and Gan, Ying, Rolling Back Dodd-Frank: Investors’ and Banks’ Responses to Financial Market Deregulation (June 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4125990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4125990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen , T Philippon , M Richardson
Measuring systemic risk
Review of Financial Studies , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , M Richardson
Implications of the Dodd-Frank Act
Annual Review of Financial Economics , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2012
A Ackerman , Y Hayashi
Congress makes it harder to sue the financial industry
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2017-10-25
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Mark Swanstrom
Corporate governance and the Dodd-Frank $10B threshold
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 8 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,829
RANK
248,977
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies