Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS-9 Adoption and Income Smoothing Nexus: A Comparison of the Post-Adoption Effects between European and Sub-Saharan African Banks

25 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022 Last revised: 20 Jun 2022

Daniel Taylor

IESEG School of Management, Univ. Lille, CNRS, UMR 9221 - LEM - Lille Economie Management

Francois Aubert

(IAE) Institut d'Administration des Entreprises

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper compares the post-adoption effects of IFRS 9 on the income smoothing behavior of banks in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa. The researchers extend their analysis to examine the effect of country-level governance on income smoothing. Using a sample of listed commercial banks in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa, the authors employ varying econometric tests and panel regressions to investigate the hypotheses. The findings show a decrease in income smoothing across the full sample post-IFRS 9. Partitioned into sub-samples to explore potential economic heterogeneity and differing institutional context between the European and Sub-Saharan African settings, the authors report mixed evidence of higher and decreased income smoothing in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa respectively. This is consistent with the theoretical arguments that the implementation effects of IFRS 9 are expected to vary across jurisdictions (Deloitte, 2016b). Also, governance quality mitigates the incidence of income smoothing. This paper is one of the first to empirically compare the income smoothing behavior of commercial banks in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa following the adoption of IFRS 9. It, therefore, provides original insight into the theoretical argument that the adoption effects of IFRS 9 are expected to vary across jurisdictions depending on several factors like country, firm size, and institutional factors among others (Deloitte, 2016b). The findings highlight how bank managers in different jurisdictions exercise the inherent discretion under IFRS 9 over their financial reporting choices.

Keywords: Income smoothing, IFRS 9 adoption, Banks, Corporate governance, Europe, Africa

JEL Classification: G21, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Daniel and Aubert, Francois, IFRS-9 Adoption and Income Smoothing Nexus: A Comparison of the Post-Adoption Effects between European and Sub-Saharan African Banks (June 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4125109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4125109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
C C Ajekwe , A Ibiamke , M F Silas
loan loss provisions, earnings smoothing and capital management under IFRS: the case of deposit money banks in Nigeria
American Journal of Management Science and Engineering , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 58 - 64 Posted: 2017
M Amidu , H Issahaku
Do globalization and adoption of IFRS by banks in Africa lead to less earnings management?
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 248 Posted: 2019
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , A Lozano-Vivas
The role of loan loss provisions in earnings management, capital management and signaling: the Spanish experience
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 45 - 65 Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Maher M. Dorgham , Ahmed A. M. AlAfifi , Abed Allah Kh. Abu Zaid
Impact of Compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS No. 9 on Financial Risk Reduction in Banks Listed on the Palestine Stock Exchange
Journal of Accounting and Finance in Emerging Economies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 265 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Małgorzata Olszak , Christophe J. Godlewski , Gracjan Bachurewicz
Determinants of bank income smoothing: Cross-country evidence from EEA banks during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis
69 Pages · Posted: 28 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 74
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
205,502
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies