Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Role of Industry, Firm, CEO, and CFO Effects in Financial Reporting Quality: A Hierarchical Linear Modelling Approach

55 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022 Last revised: 7 Jun 2023

Tharindra Ranasinghe

American University

Ariel Rava

Yeshiva University - Syms School of Business

Emanuel Zur

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

Industry, firm, CEO, CFO, and time effects are likely to have a significant influence on a firm’s financial reporting quality (FRQ). However, our understanding of the extent to which each of these factors affects different facets of FRQ remains limited. In this paper, we employ hierarchical linear multi-level modelling (HLM) techniques to quantify the relative influence of industry, firm, manager (CEO and CFO), and year factors on FRQ attributes of accruals quality, financial-statement readability, comparability, and disclosure disaggregation. Our findings suggest that, on average, industry and firm-level effects have the largest impact on FRQ. CEO and CFO effects too are quite considerable. We also find that the CFO (CEO) is the comparatively more influential senior manager in shaping FRQ in terms of accounting numbers (narrative disclosure). In most cases, the five factors of industry, firm, CEO, CFO, and year explain over 70% of the variation in FRQ. The paper contributes to the literature by expanding our understanding on the extent to which characteristics that are inherent to the firm as well as those that vary by managers influence FRQ.

Keywords: Industry, firm, CEO, CFO, time effects, fixed effects, financial reporting quality (FRQ), hierarchical linear multi-level modelling (HLM), multi-level modelling (MLM), accruals quality, financial-statement readability, comparability, and disclosure disaggregation

JEL Classification: m4, m41, c21, c22, c23, c31, c32, c33, g3,

Suggested Citation:

Ranasinghe, Tharindra and Rava, Ariel and Zur, Emanuel, Understanding the Role of Industry, Firm, CEO, and CFO Effects in Financial Reporting Quality: A Hierarchical Linear Modelling Approach (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
L S Bamber , J X Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
Accounting Review , volume 85 Posted: 2010
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of accounting research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Lisa A. Hinson , Steven Utke
Structural Equation Modeling in Archival Capital Markets Research: An Empirical Application to Disclosure and Cost of Capital
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 87 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
303,587
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies