Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An investigation into the audit committee’s evaluation of the auditor

28 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022 Last revised: 19 Jul 2025

Krista J. Fiolleau

University of Waterloo

Bradley Pomeroy

University of Waterloo

Susan A. McCracken

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: July 19, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – We investigate how audit committees evaluate the audit team, including the processes they follow, information they gather, tools they use, and the impact of their evaluation on the reappointment decision.
Design/methodology/approach – Our investigation is informed by 29 interviews with audit committee members, company managers, and auditors. Interviewees describe an experience where their audit committee evaluated the auditor, and we analyze the process they followed and tools they used to evaluate the audit team. Our analysis draws on the notion of a calculative agency from Callon and Muniesa (2005) which emphasizes the role tools play in making an evaluation possible.
Findings – Interviewees describe the audit committee’s interactions with the auditor in meetings as a key input to their evaluation. The evaluation focuses primarily on the audit partner, at least in part because audit committees do not interact with most of the audit team. Audit committees can expand their evaluation with tools like questionnaires that help them see more of the audit team than would be possible at a meeting. The evaluation serves as an opportunity for audit committees to express what they expect from the audit team.
Originality – We contribute to research that shows audit committees focus their evaluation more on the audit team, particularly the audit partner, than the audit firm. We also contribute to research that characterizes auditing as an economic service that is tailored to meet stakeholder expectations.

Keywords: Audit committee, Audit partner, Audit team, Auditor, Calculative agency, Evaluation, Tools

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Fiolleau, Krista J. and Pomeroy, Bradley and McCracken, Susan A., An investigation into the audit committee’s evaluation of the auditor (July 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Auditor changes and tendering: UK interview evidence
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 98 Posted: 1998
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The effect of the social mismatch between staff auditors and client management on the collection of audit evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
461,853
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies