Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CSR Reduce the Role of Dividends in Managing the Agency Problem? Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in India

38 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2022

Nemiraja Jadiyappa

Indian Institute of Management Raipur

Adam Usman

James Madison University

Abstract

We examine the intermediating role of CSR expenditures on dividend policy in the management of the agency problem. Using mandatory CSR expenditure requirements initiated by the Companies Act 2013 in India we find that CSR spending reduces dividend payouts, and this reduction is more pronounced among firms facing greater agency problems. Additionally, we find that CSR spending is related to increases in firm value particularly for firms with agency problems. These findings suggest that, contrary to common wisdom, CSR is not a reflection of the agency problem. Rather, CSR can be used as a tool to resolve the agency problem.

Keywords: CSR, dividend policy, agency problem, India

Suggested Citation:

Jadiyappa, Nemiraja and Usman, Adam, Does CSR Reduce the Role of Dividends in Managing the Agency Problem? Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in India. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The Dividend Policies of All-Equity Firms: A Direct Test of the Free Cash Flow Theory
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
F Allen , R Michaely , G M Constantinides , M Harris , R M Stulz
Chapter 7-Payout Policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
P Asquith , D W Mullins
Signalling with Dividends, Stock Repurchases, and Equity Issues
Financial Management , volume 15 , p. 27 - 44 Posted: 1986
N Attig , S W Cleary , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Corporate Legitimacy and Investment-Cash Flow Sensitivity
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 121 , p. 297 - 314 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
478
RANK
692,403
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies