Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Regulatory Budget for the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

Georgia State University Law Review, Vol. 38, No. 3, 2022

George Mason Legal Studies Research Paper No. LS 22-20

60 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022

J. W. Verret

George Mason University - Antonin Scalia Law School

Date Written: June 3, 2022

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Standards Board (PCAOB) was created by the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002 in response to the Enron and WorldCom auditing scandals. The PCAOB regulates the $20 billion annual auditing industry, which itself provides assurance for the financial integrity of $27 trillion in outstanding global publicly traded equity. The PCAOB is uniquely a quasi-private entity overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which approves its budget and must approve any changes in its rules. The PCAOB has undertaken initiatives to attenuate the cost–benefit calculus of its rules, most notably in a change from Auditing Standard 2 to Auditing Standard 5, to reduce the compliance costs of auditor attestation of internal controls required by § 404(b) of the SOX. This Article provides the SEC with a regulatory budget rubric, crafted on similar models implemented in the United Kingdom and Canada, to help the SEC fulfill its oversight function over the PCAOB by tracking a regulatory budget for the PCAOB.

Keywords: Public Company Accounting Standards Board, PCAOB, Sarbanes–Oxley Act, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Auditing Standard 2, Auditing Standard 5, regulatory budget rubric

JEL Classification: K2, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Verret, J. W., A Regulatory Budget for the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (June 3, 2022). Georgia State University Law Review, Vol. 38, No. 3, 2022, George Mason Legal Studies Research Paper No. LS 22-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4127413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4127413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Jeffrey A See , Brian Rosen , Callanan
The Regulatory Budget Revisited, 66 ADMIN. L. REV , volume 835 , p. 838 - 839 Posted: 2014
See Generally , Laura Jones , Mercatus Rsch , Red Cutting , I N Tape , Canada
A REGULATORY REFORM MODEL FOR THE UNITED STATES? Posted: 2015
See Rosen & Callanan, supra note 35
) (statement of Patrick McLaughlin, PhD, Senior Research Fellow Posted: 2016-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
772,295
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies