Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Voluntary ESG Reporting Resolve Disagreement Among ESG Rating Agencies?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2022

Michael D. Kimbrough

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Xu (Frank) Wang

Saint Louis University - Chaifetz School of Business

Sijing Wei

Creighton University - Heider College of Business

Jiarui (Iris) Zhang

California State University, Long Beach

Date Written: June 5, 2022

Abstract

US companies are increasingly responding to demand from investors and other stakeholders for transparent information about companies’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance by issuing ESG reports on a voluntary basis. We examine whether these reports help to resolve the previously documented disagreement among ESG rating agencies about individual companies’ ESG performance. Consistent with this possibility, we find that disagreement among ESG rating agencies is lower for firms that voluntarily issue ESG reports. In particular, disclosures about the environmental and social dimensions help reduce disagreement about the company’s performance on those dimensions. Using textual analysis, we find that longer reports are associated with reduced disagreement among ESG raters while reports with more positive tones or that use a greater number of sticky words are associated with heightened disagreement. The association between ESG disclosure and ESG disagreement is more pronounced when firms obtain third-party attestations on their ESG reports, especially from accounting firms, and when firms adhere to advanced levels of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting standards. Finally, ESG disagreement is positively associated with disagreement and uncertainty in the capital market, providing strong motivation for firms to voluntarily disclose ESG reports to reduce ESG disagreement.

Keywords: Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reporting; Voluntary disclosure; ESG rating agencies; Intermediaries; Disagreement

JEL Classification: G24, M14, M41, M42, M48, G38, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Kimbrough, Michael D. and Wang, Xu (Frank) and Wei, Sijing and Zhang, Jiarui, Does Voluntary ESG Reporting Resolve Disagreement Among ESG Rating Agencies? (June 5, 2022). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4128503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
C A Adams , R Evans
Accountability, completeness, credibility and the audit expectations gap
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 14 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2004
V Atta-Darkua , D Chambers , E Dimson , Z Ran , T Yu
Strategies for responsible investing: Emerging academic evidence
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 26 - 35 Posted: 2020
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Voluntary assurance of voluntary CSR disclosure
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 205 - 230 Posted: 2017
B Ballou , R J Casey , J H Grenier , D L Heitger
Exploring the strategic integration of sustainability initiatives: opportunities for accounting research
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,842
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,975
RANK
21,200
32 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies