Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconceptualizing the Management–Auditor Relationship by Applying the General Partnership Contract to Challenge Independence: Ideals Versus Reality

Journal of Accounting, Business and Management (JABM) vol. 29 no. 1 (2022) 155-193 https://doi.org/10.31966/jabminternational.v29i1.792

40 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2022

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Date Written: June 3, 2022

Abstract

he audit function in a corporate model can be a defective tool in monitoring executive management. Arguably, the Sarbanes-–Oxley Act (SOX) inadvertently has placed auditors in unwanted positions while increasing their independence. Auditors’ reliance on their clients for collecting information, financial dependence, and self-bias in processing information restrain them from neutrally and objectively judging corporate reporting. Mandated rules can never substitute integrity and the desired objectivity by shareholders. By reconceptualizing the result of the relationship as a general partnership where trust plays a critical role, this study considers the relationship between management and their auditors, offers an explanation about the audit firms’ behavior, and offers reasons for the failure of some audit for committing unethical actions. The analysis leads to testable empirical and policy implications. Accounting theorists should be on board critiquing and retheorizing positively but not normatively. A corporation with the absence of an objective party that shareholder count to attest corporate reporting impartially.

Keywords: Independence, Partnership, Auditor, Audit Function, Audit Profession, Objectivity, Neutrality, Shareholders, Public Interest, Sarbanes–Oxley Act, SOX, Management, Non-Audit Services, NAS, Partner Rotation; Corporation

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed, Reconceptualizing the Management–Auditor Relationship by Applying the General Partnership Contract to Challenge Independence: Ideals Versus Reality (June 3, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Business and Management (JABM) vol. 29 no. 1 (2022) 155-193 https://doi.org/10.31966/jabminternational.v29i1.792, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4129698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
216 References
I Adelopo
Auditor independence: Auditing, corporate governance, and market confidence Posted: 2012
A S Ahmed , M L Mcanally , S Rasmussen , C D Weaver
How costly is the Sarbanes Oxley act? Evidence on the effects of the act on corporate profitability
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 369 Posted: 2010
K Al-Adeem
Sustaining mutual and market interests in the auditor and corporate client relationship. A Refereed Proceeding Posted: 2015-04-23
K R Al-Adeem
A need to theorize corporations: An accounting perspective
International Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
502,079
1 Citations
216 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies