Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Discretion and Loss Reserve Discounting: Evidence from the Canadian Property-Casualty Insurance Industry

49 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

David L. Eckles

University of Georgia - Department of Insurance, Legal Studies, Real Estate

Mary Kelly

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Date Written: June 7, 2022

Abstract

We examine costs and benefits associated with accounting standards that allow property-casualty insurers to discount their loss reserves. While discounting reserves presents a more complete assessment of a firm’s economic condition, it may also be used to manage earnings. Using a sample of Canadian insurers from 2011 to 2019, we find empirical evidence that firms manage discount rates in response to financial weakness, rate regulation, and potential merger activity, suggesting that firms use discretion over discount rates to meet reporting objectives. However, we find no evidence of substitution between earnings management tools. We also find evidence that discount rates convey useful information to external parties—they are relevant predictors of future investment returns and are incorporated into analyst ratings. Finally, we document real effects of requiring firms to report discount rates. Firms reporting higher rates allocate more of their investment portfolio to equities to justify the higher rates.

Keywords: Accounting Discretion, Discount Rates, Insurance, Loss Reserves, Investments

JEL Classification: G22, H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Evan and Eckles, David L. and Kelly, Mary, Accounting Discretion and Loss Reserve Discounting: Evidence from the Canadian Property-Casualty Insurance Industry (June 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4130633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Discounting of property and casualty loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Actuarial Standard of Practice No
Actuarial Standards Board , volume 20 Posted: 1992
A M Best
1969-2008 impairment review Posted: 2009
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of book-tax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
A L Beatty , B Ke , K R Petroni
Earnings management to avoid earnings declines across publicly and privately held banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 570 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
568,026
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies