Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxonomy of Risk Disclosure: Evidences from an Emerging Economy

Proceedings of the Global Conference on Innovations in Management and Business (GCIMB 2021)

16 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Chandni Khandelwal

Malaviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT), Jaipur - Department of Management Studies

Satish Kumar

Indian Institute of Management Nagpur

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: In this study, an attempt is made to explore the trend in risk disclosure among Indian companies. The purpose of this paper is to present taxonomy of risk disclosure by examining a sample of non-financial companies listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Research Methodology/Design: For this research, a sample of 205 non-financial companies were derived from Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE top 500) listed companies. Annual reports of these companies were downloaded from their websites during the period 2010-2018. A total of 1845 annual reports are scanned through software Nvivo- 12 to find different types of risk words. To get sentence count manual method is used. Based on the product or service sampled companies were also classified in 13 sectors viz. Agri-Business, Automobile, Business Solution & Consultancy, Construction & Real estate, Defence Services, Electronics, Entertainment, Personal Products, Pharmaceuticals, Transportation, Machinery, Process, and Power sector. Major Findings: It is observed that the process sector is the largest sector with 67 companies. The overall risk disclosure trend in annual reports during the period 2010–2018 is computed. The risk disclosure trend in Indian companies is increasing gradually from the year 2010 to 2013. However, a drastic increase in disclosure is observed from 2016 onwards. The risk disclosure index (RDI) is also computed. It is also observed that process sector companies have higher RDI as compared to other sector companies. Taxonomy of risk disclosure is also proposed. Research Implications: The implication of the findings is that companies that meaningfully increase their voluntary disclosures in this field may be treated more favorably in the stock market. The findings will also help Indian securities market regulators to identify the need for more comprehensive risk disclosures for companies. This could lead regulators into investigating the case for developing and introducing prescriptive regulations regarding minimum disclosures to be made by listed companies. The Risk Disclosure Index is unique because it is the first aggregate indicator that captures not only the number of risk items disclosed, but also the type of items disclosed. In addition, this research sets the foundation for research on risk disclosure that is important and unexplored area in developing country like India.

Keywords: Content Analysis, India, Risk Disclosure, Risk Disclosure Index, Taxonomy

Suggested Citation:

Khandelwal, Chandni and Kumar, Satish, Taxonomy of Risk Disclosure: Evidences from an Emerging Economy (April 5, 2022). Proceedings of the Global Conference on Innovations in Management and Business (GCIMB 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4130393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Abdullah , Z A Shukor , Z M Mohamed , A Ahmad
Risk management disclosure: A study on the effect of voluntary risk management disclosure toward firm value
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 400 - 432 Posted: 2015
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
M U Adamu
Risk reporting: a study of risk disclosures in the annual reports of listed companies in Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
724
RANK
592,557
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies