Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance with Canadian Internal Control Regulations by Smaller Public Companies: A Practical Implementation Guide

190 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022

George K. K. Fonderson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 3, 2021

Abstract

Compliance with regulatory and disclosure obligations can be a daunting prospect for listed companies in Canada, particularly smaller companies with limited access to capital and expertise. Many of these issuers access capital through Canadian venture exchanges, junior markets specifically designed to enable lesser-known entrepreneurial companies, to source the capital required to execute their business plans. Canada is widely known as a global energy and mining jurisdiction, and many start-up entities trade on Canadian capital markets. More established companies trade on senior markets such as the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). In 2008, Canadian Securities Administrators (CSA), regulators of Canada’s capital markets, finalized National Instrument 52-109 (NI 52-109). NI 52-109 requires certain listed companies to implement effective Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) and Disclosure Controls and Procedures (DC&P). The Chief Executive Officers (CEO) and Chief Financial Officers (CFO) of these companies must also issue quarterly and annual certificates confirming that they have evaluated the effectiveness of their internal control systems. Similar to Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) legislation in the United States, the Canadian regulations were, in part, intended to address an increasing trend of ethical and governance failures of boards of directors and senior executives who were thought to be complicit or negligent in the collapse of their own companies. This project provides an implementation roadmap for companies needing to comply with the requirements of NI 52-109. Using a case study approach, the project outlines an implementation methodology and illustrates the use of this methodology with appropriate templates and model documentation to guide the development of a system of internal control for a smaller issuer.


Keywords: Regulatory Requirements, Disclosure Obligations, Listed Companies, Canadian Stock Exchanges, NI 52-109, SOX Act, Internal Control

JEL Classification: M48, M42, M13, M40

Suggested Citation:

Fonderson, George, Compliance with Canadian Internal Control Regulations by Smaller Public Companies: A Practical Implementation Guide (December 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4132830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
News
WorldCom admits $3.8 billion accounting trick Posted: 2002-06-26
B E Abraham
Reduced CFO and CEO certification for venture issuers. Finance and Banking-Canada Posted: 2007-12-12
Clarified Statements on Auditing Standards AU-C sec Posted: 2012
Clarified Statements on Auditing Standards AU-C sec Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
360,957
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies