Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies for Boosting Cybersecurity

58 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022

Janine S. Hiller

Virginia Tech

Kathryn Kisska-Schulze

Clemson University College of Business

Scott Shackelford

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Business Law; Indiana University Bloomington - The Vincent and Elinor Ostrom Workshop in Political Theory & Policy Analysis; Center for Applied Cybersecurity Research; Harvard Kennedy School Belfer Center for Science & International Affairs; Stanford Center for Internet and Society; Stanford Law School

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

By many accounts, the worst year on record for data and system breaches was 2020; however, across numerous metrics such dubious distinction was topped in 2021. The growing epidemic of ransomware and other cyber-enabled incidents and attacks is causing policymakers and business leaders to consider how to both reward “reasonable” cybersecurity and disincentivize under-investment in cybersecurity best practices. Such steps are critical amidst a current cybersecurity landscape fraught with regulatory gaps, opaque self-regulation, and resource constraints, especially among small and medium sized businesses.

Bold and coordinated actions are needed to dislodge the unsustainable trend of increasingly damaging cyber attacks and to create a more holistically secure digital future. To meet such need, this Article proposes breaking the mandate-versus-self-regulation dichotomy by leveraging a tailored sticks and carrots tax approach to spur more universal investment in secure systems. The proposal includes a Federal Cybersecurity Investment Tax Credit, tailored and mapped to select entity types, combined with a tax on cyberinsecurity. The proposed incentive structure promotes the principle that businesses have basic cybersecurity responsibilities and fundamental duties to operate securely in a digital society. In addition, this Article introduces supplementary tools as part of an enhanced cybersecurity tax policy toolkit. Given the pressing national and global cyber risks, this Article jumpstarts a long-needed conversation about the operative use of tax policy to promote good governance and effective cybersecurity risk management.


Keywords: Cybersecurity, tax, risk management, cyberattack

Suggested Citation:

Hiller, Janine S. and Kisska-Schulze, Kathryn and Shackelford, Scott J., Strategies for Boosting Cybersecurity (June 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4132506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Jihwon Song , Min Jae Park
A system dynamics approach for cost-benefit simulation in designing policies to enhance the cybersecurity resilience of small and medium-sized enterprises
Information Development Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
RANK
388,737
1 Citations
177 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cybersecurity, Privacy, & Networks eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies