Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Media Sustainability Reporting and Firm Performance

56 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2022

Da-Kuan Dou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Brand fong

National Sun Yat-Sen University

Hua-Wei Huang

National Cheng Kung University

Che-Hung Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study analyzes the association between the social media sustainability reporting of international companies and financial performance. We find that firms listed on top ranking of social media sustainability index are more likely to reveal higher financial performance, after controlling for distinct corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance, the board of directors, and industry characteristics. Our findings thus strengthen the viewpoint of the stakeholder and transformation benefit theories that improvement in social media sustainability reporting may enhance brand reputation and lead to higher profit. Our empirical result implies that when companies pursue a green image through the use of sustainability social media reporting, most of them can create firm value through aligning the interests of shareholders with those of stakeholders. International regulators should comprehend that companies have cost constraints in relation to sustainability social media reporting. Thus, it is vital to align the goals of management and stakeholders with material issues when attempting to engage in sustainability social media reporting. To the best of our knowledge, our study is the first empirical study to investigate whether and how the social media sustainability ranking influences firm performance.

Keywords: Sustainability initiatives, social media sustainability reporting, firm performance.

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Da-Kuan and fong, Brand and Huang, Hua-Wei and Liu, Che-Hung, Social Media Sustainability Reporting and Firm Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4132393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
G J Alexander , R A Buchholz
Corporate social responsibility and stock market performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
J C Anderson , A W Frankle
Voluntary social reporting: An iso-beta portfolio analysis
The Accounting Review , p. 467 - 479 Posted: 1980
M Arayssi , M Dah , M Jizi
Women on boards, sustainability reporting and firm performance. Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 401 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
878
RANK
382,931
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies