Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Managerial Entrenchment Relate to Financial Statement Comparability?

44 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2022

David Folsom

Weber State University (WSU) - Goddard School of Business and Economics

Rebeca Perez

New Mexico State University

Qifeng (Charles) Wu

University of Central Arkansas

Abstract

This study examines whether managerial entrenchment is associated with firms’ financial statement comparability. We find that managerial entrenchment has a significant negative effect on financial statement comparability, providing new insights into the internal, managerial effects on financial reporting quality. Moreover, by using business segments as a proxy for business complexity, we confirm that the variation of accounting comparability with its peer firms mainly stems from managers’ investment choices, supporting FASB’s assertion that financial statement comparability is a reporting quality that should be enhanced among firms with similar economic foundations. Lastly, we test whether managerial entrenchment affects mergers and acquisitions decisions. We show that entrenched managers tend to pay less attention to target firms’ financial statement comparability in the process of due diligence, and that the post-merger returns from these acquisition deals are lower because of managerial entrenchment. Our results hold with alternative measures of financial statement comparability.

Keywords: entrenchment, comparability, business segments

Suggested Citation:

Folsom, David and Perez, Rebeca and Wu, Qifeng (Charles), How Does Managerial Entrenchment Relate to Financial Statement Comparability?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4133412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4133412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Abnormal returns to a fundamental analysis strategy
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 45 Posted: 1998
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
K A Bentley , T C Omer , N Y Sharp
Business strategy, financial reporting irregularities, and audit effort
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 780 - 817 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
467,197
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies