Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure, Incentives, and Asset Returns

Management Science 70 (1), 589--615.

83 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2022 Last revised: 24 Jan 2024

Hae Won (Henny) Jung

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ajay Subramanian

Georgia State University

Qi Zeng

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 23, 2024

Abstract

We develop a dynamic equilibrium model to derive the endogenous relations among firms' ownership structures, managerial incentives and asset returns. Ownership concentration is positively related to managerial incentives (PPS), but is negatively related to its expected stock (dollar) return and volatility. If initial block ownership is above (below) its steady-state level, block ownership and managerial PPS decrease (increase) over time to their steady-state levels, while the expected stock returns, return volatilities, and the price impacts of block trades increase (decrease). The convergence of these variables to their respective steady-state levels is faster for firms that are less productive, that are riskier, and whose earnings are more sensitive to managerial actions. The price impact of block trades is larger in firms that are more productive and smaller in firms whose earnings are more sensitive to managerial actions. Changes in the expected stock return over time are negatively affected by changes in block ownership, but positively affected by changes in managerial incentives. Relative to owner-managed firms, more widely owned firms have lower expected stock returns and volatilities, faster dispersion of block ownership, and smaller but more variable price impacts of block trades. Compared to diffusely owned firms, firms with significant blockholdings have lower expected stock returns, higher return volatilities, and less powerful managerial incentives.

Keywords: Large Shareholders, Managerial Incentives, Asset Returns, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, D82, D86

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Hae Won (Henny) and Subramanian, Ajay and Zeng, Qi, Ownership Structure, Incentives, and Asset Returns (January 23, 2024). Management Science 70 (1), 589--615., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4134617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large Shareholder Activism, Risk Sharing, and Financial Market Equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active Institutional Shareholders and Costs of Monitoring: Evidence from Executive Compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
R Almgren , N Chriss
Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions
Journal of Risk , volume 3 , p. 5 - 39 Posted: 2000
G A Baghdadi , I M Bhatti , L H G Nguyen , E J Podolski
Skill or Effort? Institutional Ownership and Managerial Efficiency
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 91 , p. 19 - 33 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,032
RANK
384,900
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies