Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Venture Capitalists Contract with Narcissistic Entrepreneurs in Environments with Weak Institutions

69 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022 Last revised: 6 Apr 2025

Yi Jiang

Harbin Institute of Technology (shenzhen)

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Date Written: March 29, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how venture capital (VC) firms invest in and contract with narcissistic entrepreneurs in weak institutional environments. We find that VCs are more likely to invest in ventures led by narcissistic entrepreneurs, consistent with the notion that VCs seek to harness the productive aspects of narcissism. At the same time, VCs adopt contractual mechanisms to mitigate associated risks, favoring contingent contracts over direct monitoring through board representation. These contracts are often tailored to the specific context of each firm rather than relying on standardized terms. Although designed to address governance challenges linked to narcissistic entrepreneurs, we find only limited evidence that such contracts significantly enhance firm performance. Overall, our findings suggest that VCs employ contractual innovation to balance the potential advantages and drawbacks of entrepreneur narcissism in settings where institutional constraints weaken traditional governance channels.

JEL Classification: G24; G32; K12; M13; M41

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yi and Ke, Bin, How Venture Capitalists Contract with Narcissistic Entrepreneurs in Environments with Weak Institutions (March 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4134311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4134311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
D R Ames , P Rose , C P Anderson
The NPI-16 as a short measure of narcissism
Journal of research in personality , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 440 - 450 Posted: 2006
C S Andreassen , H Ursin , H R Eriksen , S Pallesen
The relationship of narcissism with workaholism, work engagement, and professional position
Social Behavior and Personality: an international journal , volume 40 , issue 6 , p. 881 - 890 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,163
RANK
317,057
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies