Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Performance and the Cost of Debt – An Analysis of the Impact of Country- and Industry-specific Climate Risk Exposures

63 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2022 Last revised: 6 Jul 2022

Jan Christ

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of International Accounting

Tobias Hertel

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of Finance and Banking

Jannik Kocian

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of International Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

We provide a comprehensive assessment of the relationship between Corporate Sustainability Performance (CSP) and the cost of debt (CoD) by employing both score- and event-based measures for a sample of European firms. Our results suggest that high levels of CSP, especially considering the environmental and social dimensions, are associated with lower credit default swaps (CDS) spreads, irrespective of the applied measurement method. Focusing on climate-related sustainability performance, we can identify a country-specific and industry-specific risk premium for the CDS spreads of highly exposed firms. In a further analysis, we explore whether the occurrence of global climate policy events affects the cost of debt similarly to firm-specific ESG-controversies. We observe that the CDS spreads are overall affected by international climate policy events, although investors seem to be less differentiating in their price reactions following these events. Our results remain consistent in various robustness checks for instance using different measurement approaches and different operationalization of CSP.

Keywords: Climate risk, Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG), Credit default swaps (CDS), Corporate Sustainability Performance (CSP), Credit risk

JEL Classification: G12, G24, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Jan and Hertel, Tobias and Kocian, Jannik, Corporate Sustainability Performance and the Cost of Debt – An Analysis of the Impact of Country- and Industry-specific Climate Risk Exposures (June 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4135247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4135247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
References Andres , C Betzer , A Doumet , M
Measuring changes in credit risk: The case of CDS event studies
Global Finance Journal , volume 49 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2021
S C Bae , K Chang , H.-C Yi
Are More Corporate Social Investments Better?: Evidence of Non-Linearity Effect on Costs of US Bank Loans
Global Finance Journal , volume 38 , p. 82 - 96 Posted: 2018
J Bai , L Wu
Anchoring Credit Default Swap Spreads to Firm Fundamentals
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , p. 1521 - 1543 Posted: 2016
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Conflict between Owners
Posted: 2005-01-26
Load more
5 Citations
Emanuele Campiglio , Luca De Angelis , Paolo Neri , Ginevra Scalisi
From Climate Chat to Climate Shock: Non‐Linear Impacts of Transition Risk in Energy CDS Markets
Environmetrics , volume 36 , issue 3 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Alexander Blasberg , Rüdiger Kiesel
Quantitative Energy Finance
, p. 247 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Emanuele Campiglio , Luca De Angelis , Paolo Neri , Ginevra Scalisi
From Climate Chat to Climate Shock: Non-Linear Impacts of Transition Risk in Energy CDS Markets
ENEECO-D-23-01928 · 19 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 48
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Emanuele Campiglio , Luca De Angelis , Paolo Neri , Ginevra Scalisi
From Climate Chat to Climate Shock: Non-Linear Impacts of Transition Risk in Energy CDS Markets
ECOLEC-D-23-02691 · 20 Pages · Posted: 23 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 26
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,456
RANK
217,404
5 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies