Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG for Venture Capital, Private Equity and Responsible Investing

8 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Stanley Ugo Nnam

Independent

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

Over time, ESG has gained widespread attention and its relevance continues to grow as investors and businesses look to understand how its implementation can help to enhance their business models, ensure sustainability and long-term profitability. In this piece of writing, the objective is to discuss in finer detail the tripartite arms that compose of the ESG concept. In addition to that, we examine how embedment of ESG factors are indicators for likely success of companies that are subject of venture capital and private equity investment. The environmental factors in ESG evaluate how an investment or a business entity’s operations impact the environment. It considers how the business or investments utilize natural resources and the effect of its operations on the environment. Business entities which neglect to conduct these evaluations of their business models and activities may be exposed to some significant level of risk. For example, natural resources extraction firms must ensure adequate proactive action to prevent environmental accidents like oil spills or mining explosions. Social factors have to do with the relationships and treatment of significant stakeholders in the affairs of a business such as its employees, suppliers, clients, communities and other sometimes extensive network of stakeholders that may be connected to the business. Proper governance standards in ESG cover the implementation of fair corporate governance, leadership, audit, internal controls and shareholder rights. A firm with strong governance instituted in it means that risks associated with ethical and legal management, transparency and accuracy of disclosures and other associated operational details are mitigated. Integration of ESG factors into investment and business models significantly increases the chances of success by assuring three guarantees- (i.) Safety from government regulation, (ii.) Beneficial reputation and (iii.) Enhanced financial performance. In concluding, it is recommended that since ESG integration is in tune with the major objective of venture capital and private equity investments- which is to maximize investor capital and shareholder returns, business owners, startup founders and VC/PE firms alike should look to reinforce their chances of making profit by making their business and investment models ESG compliant.

Keywords: ESG, Environmental, Social, Governance, Private Equity, Venture Capital, Responsible Investing

Suggested Citation:

Nnam, Stanley Ugo, ESG for Venture Capital, Private Equity and Responsible Investing (June 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4135535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4135535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Who Cares Wins-Connecting Financial Markets to a Changing World Posted: 2004
The ESG Evaluation-Sustainable Practices, Sustainable Returns
S&P Global Ratings Evaluation Publication Posted: 2022-05-14
Green House Effects Defined. Obtained from www.britannica.com/science/greenhouse-effect on
Encyclopedia Britannica Posted: 2022-05-14
Sustainable Waste Management? Obtained via Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,044
RANK
74,422
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies