Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disloyal Managers and Corporate Social Responsibility

50 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022

Naomi Boyd

West Virginia University

Shenru Li

West Virginia University

He (Helen) Wang

West Virginia University - Department of Finance

Xianjue Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 15, 2022

Abstract

Examining whether corporate social responsibility (CSR) is in line with shareholder interests or an outcome of agency problems, we exploit the staggered adoption of corporate opportunity waiver (COW) laws, which weakens managers’ duty of loyalty. Using a difference-in-difference analysis, we find that CSR decreases significantly after passage of COW. This negative effect is stronger for firms with weaker corporate governance, firms with greater outside opportunities, and large and mature firms. In addition, CSR has a positive impact on stock returns when firms are not covered by COW. Our findings support the value-enhancing view that CSR is the outcome of well-governed managerial decisions.

Keywords: Corporate opportunity waiver, Corporate social responsibility, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, K22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Boyd, Naomi and Li, Shenru and Wang, He and Wang, Xianjue, Disloyal Managers and Corporate Social Responsibility (June 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4136898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4136898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate Social Responsibility and Credit Ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
186,854
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies