Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nail that Sticks Out: Corporate Social Responsibility and Shareholder Proposals

Barnett, M.L., V. Dimitrov & F. Gao. The nail that sticks out: Corporate social responsibility and shareholder proposals. Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2022

Michael L. Barnett

Rutgers Business School, Newark & New Brunswick

Valentin Dimitrov

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether shareholders consider CSR performance when submitting proxy proposals. We find that shareholders are more likely to propose governance changes when a firm has more CSR strengths and more CSR concerns. The results hold across popular proposal types, different sponsors, and different categories of CSR. We find similar results for social proposals. Although CSR strengths and concerns are not associated with the percentage of votes received in favor of a proposal, the higher likelihood of receiving shareholder proposals translates into a higher likelihood that at least one shareholder proposal receives majority support at the meeting. Our results suggest managers may avoid distinctively strong (and weak) CSR performance to reduce the costs of standing out.

Keywords: ESG, corporate social responsibility, shareholder activism, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Barnett, Michael L. and Dimitrov, Valentin and Gao, Feng, The Nail that Sticks Out: Corporate Social Responsibility and Shareholder Proposals (June 13, 2022). Barnett, M.L., V. Dimitrov & F. Gao. The nail that sticks out: Corporate social responsibility and shareholder proposals. Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4137459 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4137459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
L Bach , D Metzger
How close are shareholder votes?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 3183 - 3214 Posted: 2019
P Bansal , M R Desjarine
Business sustainability: It about time
Strategic Organization , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 78 Posted: 2014
M L Barnett
Stakeholder influence capacity and the variability of financial returns to corporate social responsibility
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 794 - 816 Posted: 2007
M L Barnett , I Henriques , B Husted
Beyond good intentions: Designing CSR initiatives for greater social impact
Journal of Management , volume 46 , p. 937 - 964 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,162
RANK
288,800
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies