Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Stocks and the Russian War on Ukraine - an Event Study in Europe

CESifo Working Paper No. 9798

20 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2022

Andreas Kick

University of Regensburg

Horst Rottmann

University of Applied Sciences Amberg-Weiden

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

The popularity of sustainable investments is unbroken and attracts investors and researchers alike. Modelling the properties of such ‘green’ firms, Pástor, Stambaugh, and Taylor 2021 consider a hedge against climate risks in their theoretical model. Likewise, it could be assumed that companies with high social scores might offer a protection against related events. On February 24, 2022 with the Russian invasion on Ukraine one of the biggest events imaginable came to pass. Using standard event study methodology we analyse if and how Refinitiv’s ESG-ratings, as well as the CO2 intensity, influence the cumulative abnormal returns during different event windows. We find that the abnormal returns of companies with high ecological scores are positively influenced in the pre and post-event window. However the effects are of no economical relevance. Therefore our results do not fully support the hypothesis of an ‘ESG-hedge’ against such an extreme event. If such an effect exists, it was superimposed by other properties accounting for stability and defensiveness.

Keywords: abnormal returns, war, Ukraine, ESG

JEL Classification: G110, G140, M140

Suggested Citation:

Kick, Andreas and Rottmann, Horst, Sustainable Stocks and the Russian War on Ukraine - an Event Study in Europe (2022). CESifo Working Paper No. 9798, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4137955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4137955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjo Koskinen , Shuai Yang , Chendi Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
Jan Annaert , Marc De Ceuster , Kurt Verstegen
Are extreme returns priced in the stock market? European evidence
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 9 , p. 3401 - 3411 Posted: 2013
Kee - Bae , Sadok El Hong , Zhaoran Ghoul , Omrane Gong , Guedhami
Does CSR matter in times of crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 , issue 3 Posted: 2021
Nusret Cakici , Adam Zaremba
Responsible Investing: ESG Ratings and the Cross-Section of International Stock Returns
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
Load more
10 Citations
Myriam Caratù , Patrizia Cherubino , Stefano Menicocci , Ana C. Martinez-Levy
Does sustainable communication have an impact on international social media audiences? A neuromarketing explorative study between Finland and Italy
Italian Journal of Marketing , volume 2024 , issue 1 , p. 21 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Iryna Shkura
Does Russian-Ukrainian War Impact Sustainable Investment?
Studies in Risk and Sustainable Development , volume 398 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Muhammad Muddasir , M. Camino Ramon-Llorens
Impact of Macroeconomic Factors on S&P Europe 350 ESG Index During the Russo-Ukrainian War
Scientific Annals of Economics and Business , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 145 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Ian Berk , Massimo Guidolin , Monia Magnani
New ESG rating drivers in the cross‐section of European stock returns
Journal of Financial Research , volume 46 , issue S1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
RANK
114,072
10 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies