Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MSME Access to Finance: The Role of Digital Payments

United Nations, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, MSME Financing Series No.7 (June 2022)

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022/38

51 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2022 Last revised: 27 Jun 2022

Douglas W. Arner

The University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Sijuade Animashaun

The University of Hong Kong

Kuzi Charamba

University of Hong Kong

Yixiao Cai

University of Münster; Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Technology has demonstrated its potential to transform money, payments, and finance within a growing social digital transformation. While key stakeholders focus on building public infrastructure to enable faster transition towards digital economies, it is important to look inward and leverage the available developmental options that may benefit the actualisation of sustainable development goals with minimal adverse financial and economic implications. MSMEs provide the necessary pedestal to reach a larger population of unbanked and underserved segments necessary for broader financial inclusion and inclusive economic development. If this is acknowledged, ensuring their sustainability through the provision of adequate support and finance must be at the core of present policy considerations to benefit this critical group and the extended population they provide for. Ultimately, the COVID-19 implications have paradoxically presented an important opportunity for policy makers and key stakeholders to harness the existing factors surrounding individual economies in recalibrating their present and long-term recovery efforts to ensure a more resilient and inclusive economy that caters to not just the privileged, but also the neglected.

Around the globe, there is an increasing focus on ways to exploit the potential of emerging digital financial technologies, including digital payments, to accelerate MSME access to finance and achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Yet, achieving these envisaged benefits will require thoughtful consideration and management of various systemic risks and impacts across jurisdictions and governance levels.

In this report, we examine how digitalisation, particularly digital payments innovations and innovative payment initiatives, such as central bank digital currencies (CBDCs), can play a pivotal role in fostering micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) access to finance.


Keywords: FinTech, BigTech, RegTech, CBDCs, Financial Inclusion, MSMEs, SDGs, Digital Currencies, Open banking, Gender-equality, Blockchain, Digital Identity, Smart Contracts, Distributed Ledgers, Payment Services, Robo Adviser, Mobile Money, TechFin, Aadhaar, eIDAS, KYC, Cyberrisk, BigData, Data Protection

JEL Classification: O00, O16, O32, O33, O38, K10, K20, K22, K33

Suggested Citation:

Arner, Douglas W. and Animashaun, Sijuade and Charamba, Kuzi and Cai, Yixiao, MSME Access to Finance: The Role of Digital Payments (June 1, 2022). United Nations, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, MSME Financing Series No.7 (June 2022), University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022/38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Masato Abe , Others
Policy Guidebook for SME Development in Asia and the Pacific
ESCAP Posted: 2012
Masato Abe , Michael Troilo , Orgil Batsaikhan
Financing Small and Medium Enterprises in Asia and the Pacific
Journal of Entrepreneurship and Public Policy , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 32 Posted: 2015
Masato Abe , Nick Freeman , Mike Troilo
Rethinking MSME Finance in Asia and the Pacific: A Post-Crisis Policy Agenda
ESCAP Posted: 2021
Iñaki Aldasoro , Wenqian Huang , Esti Kemp
Cross-border links between banks and non-bank financial institutions
BIS Quarterly Review Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,502
RANK
42,073
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies