Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impacts of Corporate Social Responsibility on Brand Awareness In Vietnam

15th Neu-Kku International Conference Socio-Economic and Environmental Issues In Development 2022

Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Nhan Nguyen

FPT University

Cuong Nguyen

Faculty of Commerce and Tourism of Industrial University of Ho Chi Minh City

Nguyen Ngoc Anh Tu

University of Greenwich - University of Greenwich

Date Written: June 16, 2022

Abstract

The study examined the impacts of corporate social responsibility (CSR) factors on the customer's brand awareness in a developing country, Vietnam, in the case study at McDonald's in Ho Chi Minh. Following that, the influence level of CSR factors, including ethical, economic, legal responsibility, and customer protection, on customers' brand awareness was also evaluated in the research. The questionnaires were distributed to respondents who were McDonald's customers in Ho Chi Minh City, and the study had a sample size of 385. The findings revealed that aspects of CSR had a positive relationship with customers' brand awareness. The order of influence of CSR aspects was as follows: customer protection, ethical responsibility, economic responsibility, and legal responsibility. In addition, the aspect of CSR that had the highest influence level on customer brand awareness was customer protection. Therefore, the company should develop strategies to enhance customer experience and services.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Customer's brand awareness, fast food industry, McDonald's

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Nhan and Nguyen, Cuong and Anh Tu, Nguyen Ngoc, Impacts of Corporate Social Responsibility on Brand Awareness In Vietnam (June 16, 2022). 15th Neu-Kku International Conference Socio-Economic and Environmental Issues In Development 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138507
 Not Available for Download
59 References
Dr , Thi Hoang , Hue
Dinh Viet Giang Dang Yen Nhi
Msc , Assoc Nguyen Quynh Trang , Prof , Dr
To Trung Thanh 15. PROMOTE ECONOMIC COOPERATION WITH THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION IN THE PROCESS OF VIETNAM'S ECONOMIC INTEGRATION
The , Situation , 's Seafood Exports To Eu Vietnam , Market
Dr. Dinh Duc Truong
D A Aaker
Managing Brand Equity Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies