Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Valuation Implications of Scope 2 Carbon Emissions: Measurement Effects of Dual Reporting

24 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2022

Diogenis Baboukardos

Audencia Business School

Frank Schiemann

University of Bamberg

Chaoyuan She

University of Essex

Date Written: June 16, 2022

Abstract

Our study examines the market valuation implications of indirect Scope 2 carbon emissions as measured under the two different approaches suggested by the GHG Protocol [i,e, location-based (LB) and market-based (MB)]. Although various studies have examined the value relevance of total carbon emissions, limited attention has been paid to the valuation implications of indirect emissions measured under these two different approaches. While current development in sustainability reporting regulation by SEC, ISSB and EFRAG acknowledge the necessity firms to separately disclose Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions, standard setters take different stances over the issue of measurement Scope 2 emissions. In particular, EFRAG’s exposure draft requires firms to disclose their Scope 2 emissions under both LB and MB approaches whereas SEC’s proposed rules and ISSB’s exposure draft allow firms to choose whether they follow either or both approaches. Employing a sample of US-firms that adopt both approaches in their CDP disclosure between 2016 and 2019, we find that Scope 2 emissions are negatively associated with firms’ market value when measured under both approaches. However, MB Scope 2 emissions exhibit a stronger negative effect than LB Scope 2 emissions, indicating that investors put more emphasis on MB approach when valuing firms’ climate change risks. We also show that the difference between MB and LB Scope 2 emissions carries incremental valuation relevance, suggesting that investors use LB Scope 2 emissions as a benchmark and compare it with MB Scope 2 emissions to assess firms’ climate change commitments. Our study is especially relevant to the current developments of sustainability and climate change disclosure standards by the SEC, ISSB and EFRAG as our results emphasize the necessity of adopting a dual reporting approach to Scope 2 emissions disclosures.

Keywords: Carbon emissions, Scope 2 emissions, value relevance, dual reporting

Suggested Citation:

Baboukardos, Diogenis and Schiemann, Frank and She, Chaoyuan, Market Valuation Implications of Scope 2 Carbon Emissions: Measurement Effects of Dual Reporting (June 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,045
RANK
262,392
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Politics & Energy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies