Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset-Level Transparency and the (E)valuation of Asset-Backed Securities

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Jed Neilson

Pennsylvania State University

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

K. Philip Wang

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Biqin Xie

Office of Financial Research, U.S. Department of the Treasury

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

As of November 2016, SEC Regulation (“Reg”) AB II requires issuers of certain types of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) to disclose the credit-risk attributes of each asset in the underlying pool, a substantial expansion of prior disclosure requirements. We examine how ABS issuers’ asset-level disclosures under Reg AB II affect the (e)valuation of ABS by investors and credit rating agencies. Using difference-in-differences models that compare affected and unaffected types of ABS, we find that these disclosures improve the ability of initial ABS yields and credit ratings to predict the performance of the underlying assets. These results are concentrated in deals with above-median risk layering in the underlying assets and complexity in the tranching of credit risk. We further find that asset-level disclosures are associated with lower yields. Lastly, we provide evidence that most prospective ABS investors download asset-level information during the price formation period prior to ABS issuance.

Keywords: asset-backed securities, asset-level disclosures, Reg AB II, transparency, risk layering, credit rating quality

JEL Classification: G21, G24, G28, L1, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Neilson, Jed and Ryan, Stephen G. and Wang, Philip and Xie, Biqin, Asset-Level Transparency and the (E)valuation of Asset-Backed Securities (June 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138538
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies