Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VICI Properties: Creating Value from the Ashes of Caesar’s Demise

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

11 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2022

William J. Ferguson

Ferguson Partners,

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: June 14, 2022

Abstract

In this Closer Look, we use the example of VICI Properties—a publicly traded REIT that emerged from the bankruptcy of Caesar’s Entertainment—to examine how appropriate governance choices can change the course of a corporation and establish a foundation for long-term success. We discuss the company’s history, and the decisions the controllers of the company made to establish a board of directors, recruit a leadership team, and develop corporate, financial, and investor relations strategies, and compensation and governance programs. The result of these efforts was that less than five years from bankruptcy emergence, VICI Properties achieved an impressive track record of growth, market value creation, and credit quality improvement that garnered external recognition from investors and analysts for its achievements.

We ask:

• What role did governance choices play in these outcomes?
• How critical is board quality among publicly traded companies in general and REITs in specific?
• In what way does executive leadership contribute to corporate success? How important are intangible leadership qualities, such as vision, communication, and consensus-building?
• How, if at all, does the composition of a company’s shareholder base contribute to performance?
• Do governance choices tangibly contribute to value creation, or do they simply make skeptical investors “more comfortable” with the board and management?


Keywords: Corporate governance, VICI Properties, REIT, Caesar’s Entertainment, bankruptcy, investor base, investor relations strategy, board of director, leadership, compensation, CEO, corporate governance research.

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, William J. and Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, VICI Properties: Creating Value from the Ashes of Caesar’s Demise (June 14, 2022). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Harrah's changes name to Caesar's Entertainment. 2012: Caesar's Entertainment Acquisition Corp. returns to public market through initial public offering of less than 2 percent of shares. 2013: Caesar's explores restructuring deal with junior creditors. 2015: Caesar's Entertainment places operating subsidiary (Caesar's Entertainment Operating Company) in bankruptcy
Dec: Apollo and TPG agree to take Harrah's private for $27.8 billion Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,113
RANK
254,445
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies