Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Executive Compensation

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Charles McClure

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2022

Abstract

As part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), the US Congress repealed a long-standing exception that allowed companies to deduct executives’ qualified performance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The purpose of this study is to examine whether Congress achieved its stated objective of reversing a shift in executive compensation away from cash compensation and towards performance pay, which Congress believed led executives to focus on short-term results rather than the long-term success of the company. Across a battery of tests, including a difference-in-differences design that exploits the staggered time-series implementation of the deduction limit, we find evidence compatible with the new deduction limit having no effect on executives’ salary, performance pay or total compensation, inconsistent with Congressional intent. Our results suggest that taxes are not a first-order effect of executive pay and that tax regulation could be relatively ineffective at curbing executive compensation.

Keywords: executive compensation, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and McClure, Charles and Stomberg, Bridget, Examining the Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Executive Compensation (June 6, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138821
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies