Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minority Shareholder Protection under the Corporate Governance Regime of Pakistan

25 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2022

Wasif Hassan

Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS)

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper comparatively analyses the minority shareholder protection under the corporate governance regime of different jurisdictions, including the UK and the USA. The paper then analyses the currently available recourse to minority shareholders under the Companies Act, 2017, and the repealed Companies Ordinance, 1984. The main protections provided include application to the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan by shareholders holding not less than ten percent of share capital under section 256 and application to the court by shareholders holding not less than ten percent of share capital under section 286. The paper then analyses the need for derivative claims and suggests the formal introduction of derivative claims by statute or case law and reducing the shareholding requirements for filing an application to the court or the commission.

Keywords: minority shareholder, minority shareholder protection, corporate governance, derivative claim, derivative action

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Wasif, Minority Shareholder Protection under the Corporate Governance Regime of Pakistan (May 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Abbas , '
Functional Derivative Action Framework For Pakistan Posted: 2017
T Baums , Scott K
Taking Shareholder Protection Seriously? Corporate Governance In The United States And Germany
American Journal of Comparative Law Posted: 2005
B Cheffins , B Black , M Klausner
Shareholder Suits And Outside Director Liability: The Case Of Korea
Journal of Korean Law , issue 11 Posted: 2005
M Gelter , G Helleringer , Lift
Not The Painted Veil! To Whom Are Directors' Duties Really Owed
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
609
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,041
RANK
101,211
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies