Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Influence of Information Push and Value Relevance on Investor Judgments and Market Efficiency

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

W. Brooke Elliott

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Brian Gale

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington

Jessen L. Hobson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

We use experimental markets to examine how pushing investment information and the value relevance of that information interact to influence investors’ value estimate accuracy and market price efficiency. Developments in technology allow information to be pushed to investors anytime and anywhere. However, in addition to value-relevant information, pushed information often includes information that is irrelevant for assessing firm value. Drawing on psychology theory, we find that pushing information has divergent effects depending on the value relevance of the information. Pushing only value-relevant information increases investors’ processing of the information and leads to more accurate value estimates and market prices than when not pushed. In contrast, pushing a mix of value-relevant and value-irrelevant information reduces investors’ processing of value-relevant information, leading to less accurate value estimates and market prices due to poorer acquisition and integration of information than when not pushed or when only value-relevant information is pushed. Collectively, our results reveal a dark side to push technologies, particularly with the growing presence of value-irrelevant information.

Keywords: information push, value relevance, information processing, value estimate accuracy, market price efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G14, C91, D83

Suggested Citation:

Elliott, W. Brooke and Gale, Brian and Hobson, Jessen L., The Joint Influence of Information Push and Value Relevance on Investor Judgments and Market Efficiency (June 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138508
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies