Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conflicting Fiduciary Duties and Fire Sales of VC-backed Start-ups

LawFin Working Paper No. 35

101 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2022 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Bo Bian

University of British Columbia

Yingxiang Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Casimiro Antonio Nigro

University of Leeds School of Law; Goethe University Frankfurt; Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Law

Date Written: May 04, 2025

Abstract

Unlike traditional companies, start-ups backed by venture capital (VC) have complex ownership structures that create unique conflicts between common and preferred shareholders. We find that transactions by VC funds under liquidity pressure are characterized by (i) a substantially lower sale price; (ii) a positive abnormal return for acquirers; (iii) a greater probability of being sold to industry outsiders. These features indicate the existence of fire sales, which harm common shareholders and create conflicting fiduciary duties for VC-appointed board members. Exploiting a court ruling that prioritizes fiduciary duty to common shareholders, we find that VCs under liquidation pressure subsequently become less likely to exit through fire sales. However, VCs experience reduced fundraising and the supply of venture capital to start-ups goes down, highlighting the cost of a common-favoring regime. Our findings inform the trade-offs in fiduciary duty design for the VC market.

Keywords: Corporate Law, Fiduciary Duties, Fire Sales, Governance, Mergers and Acquisitions, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: G24, G33, G34, K20, K22, K40, M13

Suggested Citation:

Bian, Bo and Li, Yingxiang and Nigro, Casimiro Antonio, Conflicting Fiduciary Duties and Fire Sales of VC-backed Start-ups (May 04, 2025). LawFin Working Paper No. 35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
V Acharya , S Bharath , A Srinivasan
Does industry-wide distress affect defaulted firms? Evidence from creditor recoveries
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 787 - 821 Posted: 2007
S Arcot , Z Fluck , J.-M Gaspar , U Hege
Fund managers under pressure: Rationale and determinants of secondary buyouts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 135 Posted: 2015
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
J.-N Barrot
Investor horizon and the life cycle of innovative firms: Evidence from venture capital
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 9 , p. 3021 - 3043 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,058
RANK
41,297
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies