Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Sustainability, Governance, National Culture and COVID-19 Impact: International Evidence and Implications

23 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2022 Last revised: 24 Jun 2022

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Dessalegn Mihret

RMIT University

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 18, 2022

Abstract

Purpose – This study examines the association of environmental sustainability, governance factors and national culture with COVID-19 impact. We seek to draw implications for thinking and researching environmental accountability at the higher level than the organisation.

Methodology/Approach/Theory – We draw on the conceptual lens of deep ecology. Using a sample of 44 countries, we employ ordinary-least-squares (OLS) regression to determine the association of environmental sustainability with COVID-19 impact proxied by total COVID-19 death and infection numbers. We collected data on country-level variables, namely, carbon emissions (as a proxy for national environmental sustainability), cultural orientations (individualism/collectivism, long-term orientation and environmental value focus), and ratings of countries on some governance variables.

Findings – The results show that countries with a higher level of corporate carbon emissions suffered from higher COVID-19 impact. Further, countries with higher accountability and government effectiveness are associated with lower COVID-19 impact, which implies productive policy responses to the pandemic in such settings. The study also finds that the positive association between carbon emissions and COVID-19 impact is less pronounced for countries with individualism culture, suggesting that policy responses such as social distancing may have yielded better results in such cultures. Further, it is found that the positive impact of carbon emissions on COVID-19 impact is lower for countries having long-term orientation culture and environmental value orientation culture.

Originality/Value – This study offers empirical insights that extend the literature on methodological thinking about the role of the corporation in environmental sustainability. It provides support to a holistic perspective to the thinking and researching environmental sustainability that transcends the organisation level.


Keywords: COVID-19; Coronavirus; Climate change; Carbon emissions; Deep ecology; Governance effectiveness, National culture

JEL Classification: G32; I10; M14; M40; M41; M49

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Mihret, Dessalegn and Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Shams, Syed, Environmental Sustainability, Governance, National Culture and COVID-19 Impact: International Evidence and Implications (June 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
670
RANK
495,993
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies