Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
News-Based ESG Ratings for Optimal Portfolios: SASB vs SDG

The Journal of Impact and ESG Investing  Spring 2024, 4  ( 3) 53 - 64

Posted: 23 Jun 2022 Last revised: 21 Jan 2023

Anatoly B. Schmidt

Finance and Risk Engineering, NYU Tandon School of Engineering

Date Written: January 19, 2023

Abstract

The news-based ESG ratings (NBESGRs) are a promising alternative to the widely used ESG ratings based on the corporate self-reporting. In this work, the NBESGRs derived using 26 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) categories and the NBESGRs derived using 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are compared for the constituents of three environmentally sensitive US equity sector ETFs (Energy, Materials, and Utilities). The specifics of three different NBESGRs based on (a) news aggregated over all SASB categories and SDGs, (b) ecological impact news, and (c) GHG emission news are discussed. It is found that while there are significant differences between the SASB-based and the SDG-based NBESGRs, the main holdings of the optimal ESG portfolios derived with these NBESGRs may be rather similar. This implies that the choice of the “all over good” companies using simultaneous optimization upon their stock return, volatility, and the ESG ratings may be not very sensitive to the specifics of the ESG metrics.

Keywords: ESG, SASB, SDG, optimal ESG portfolios

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G24, G4, M14, Q01, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Schmidt, Anatoly B., News-Based ESG Ratings for Optimal Portfolios: SASB vs SDG (January 19, 2023). The Journal of Impact and ESG Investing  Spring 2024, 4  ( 3) 53 - 64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139807
 Not Available for Download
24 References
F Alessandrini , E Jondeau
Optimal Strategies for ESG Portfolios
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 47 , issue 6 , p. 114 - 138 Posted: 2021
N Amenc , F Goltz , V Liu
Doing Good or Feeling Good? Detecting Greenwashing in Climate Investing
The Journal of Impact and ESG Investing Posted: 2022
L Berchicci , A A King
Corporate Sustainability: A Model Uncertainty Analysis of Materiality Posted: 2021
F Berg , J Kölbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Rating Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,702
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies