Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust and Contracts: Empirical Evidence

LawFin Working Paper No. 32

76 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2022 Last revised: 17 Mar 2025

Francesco D'Acunto

Georgetown University

Jin Xie

Peking University HSBC Business School

Jiaquan Yao

Jinan University - Management School

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

How does trust affect contract completeness? If contracting parties were suspicious about each others' reactions to unplanned contingencies, they might pay higher negotiation costs to complete contracts ex-ante. Meanwhile, mistrust might lead to prohibitively high negotiation costs and less complete contracts (or no contracts altogether). Using a unique sample of U.S. consulting contracts, text-based-analysis measures of contract completeness, and a shock to trust between shareholders/managers (principals) and consultants (agents) staggered across space and time, we find lower trust increases contract completeness. The clauses added to contracts after trust drops related to potential observable and verifiable misbehavior by agents or principals.

  




Keywords: Empirical Contract Theory, Incomplete Contracts, Cultural Economics, Beliefs and Choice, Personnel Economics, Organizational Economics, FinTech and Textual Analysis, Consulting, Management, Non-Compete Agreements, Big Five, Fraud, Accounting, Disclosure

JEL Classification: D86, D91, J33, L14, Z10

Suggested Citation:

D'Acunto, Francesco and Xie, Jin and Yao, Jiaquan, Trust and Contracts: Empirical Evidence (June 1, 2022). LawFin Working Paper No. 32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4140744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4140744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
U Acikalin , T Caskurlu , G Hoberg , G M Phillips
Intellectual property protection lost: The impact on competition and acquisitions
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
A Alpert , W N Evans , E M J Lieber , D Powell
Origins of the opioid crisis and its enduring impacts
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , issue 2 , p. 1139 - 1179 Posted: 2022
D Ang
The effects of police violence on inner-city students
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 136 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 168 Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
LIFENG GU , JIN XIE
Price Rigidities and the Value of Public Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 137 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
57,837
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies