Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and the Roles of Management, Internal Audit, and Enterprise Risk Management

18 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022

John R. S. Fraser

Hydro One Inc.

Rob Quail

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Betty J. Simkins

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 20, 2022

Abstract

Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) has become a major focal point for a broad array of stakeholders: investors, creditors, regulators, boards of directors, affected communities, customers, the general public, consultants, and academics. This article provides a history and current context regarding ESG and explains the drivers that have escalated this topic to dominate today’s business headlines. We provide numerous examples of what is being done in the area of ESG reporting internationally. Despite the desire for more reporting of ESG, we find that there are considerable challenges to do so in a transparent and consistent way across countries and organizations. We recommend the most critical actions that should be taken by management, by the chief risk officer, and by Internal Audit in relation to ESG reporting. We conclude with some optimism by noting that major regulators such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation are planning to issue standards in the near future that can hopefully bring convergence to the ESG requirements and expectations.

Keywords: ESG; Environmental, social, and governance; Enterprise risk management; ESG reporting

JEL Classification: A13, G32, G00, M00, M14, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fraser, John R. S. and Quail, Rob and Simkins, Betty J., Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and the Roles of Management, Internal Audit, and Enterprise Risk Management (June 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4141378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4141378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B Atkins
Demystifying ESG: Its history & current status Posted: 2020
C Baysden
ESG offers growth opportunities for 2022
CPA Journal of Accountancy. Available Posted: 2021
F Berg , J F Koelbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings Posted: 2021
S Brown , R Nuttall
The role of ESG and purpose Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,058
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,411
RANK
17,779
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies