Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Non-Financial Spillovers of Financial Information Processing Costs: Evidence from the U.S. XBRL Mandate

53 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2022 Last revised: 29 Mar 2023

Marco Errico

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Mohammed Zakriya

IÉSEG School of Management; CNRS; Lille Economie Management (LEM) UMR 9221; University of Lille

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

We study the impact of market participants’ financial information processing costs on firms’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) engagement. By leveraging the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) mandate in the U.S. as an exogenous shock to financial information processing costs, we report a significant increase in firms’ ESG performance after XBRL adoption. Further analyses reveal that the mandate affected the Governance Score the most, which is consistent with XBRL being beneficial to institutional investors who value governance mechanisms more, as is also revealed by their voting behavior. Additionally, the magnitude of the mandate’s effect wanes over time. Our results are robust to multiple falsification tests and alternative identification strategies. We argue that when market participants’ constraints in processing financial information are relaxed, they allocate more time to processing non-financial (ESG) disclosures, especially in financially opaque firms. Facing this increased attention, firm managers respond by improving their ESG engagements. Consistent with this view, we find that the positive effects of the XBRL mandate are concentrated in firms that are either well-monitored, financially opaque, or have risk-taking managers.

Keywords: ESG, XBRL, disclosure, reporting regulation, information processing costs

JEL Classification: G32, G34, L21, M14, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Errico, Marco and Zakriya, Mohammed, The Non-Financial Spillovers of Financial Information Processing Costs: Evidence from the U.S. XBRL Mandate (June 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4142261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4142261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
R D Banker , X Ma , C Pomare , Y Zhang
When doing good for society is good for shareholders: Importance of alignment between strategy and CSR performance
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,494
RANK
271,899
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies