Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Performance of Financial Institutions & Internal Control System- A Case Study of Guaranty Trust Bank, Kigali Rwanda

International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development (IJTSRD) Volume 6 Issue 4, May-June 2022 Available Online: www.ijtsrd.com e-ISSN: 2456 –6470

10 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2022

Neelam Maurya

Government Degree College

Vidhya K

LEAD College of Management

Dr. Umamaheswari K.

Business Administration, Kebri Dehar University

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

The study was all about internal control systems and the performance of financial institutions of GT Bank, Kigali, Rwanda (2016- 2020).Methodology of the study based on explanatory research design; the population of this study was 105 of employees of GT Bank-Rwanda, which was used as sample size using universal sampling method to gather information from respondents. The study used descriptive and inferential statistics. Findings on the effect of control activities on financial performance of GT Bank Rwanda were presented on Table 4.9 indicates the value of R-square in this study is 87.3% means that the proportion of financial performance as dependent variable is explained by the independent variables (control activities) at 87.3%. This indicates that the model is very strong, as the independent variable very highly explain the dependent variable. The adjusted R-square is used to compensate for additional variable in the model. In this case, the adjusted R-square is 87.2%. Findings on the effect of risk assessment on financial performance of GTBank Rwanda were presented on Table 4.12 show the value of R-square in this study is 61.1% means that the proportion of financial performance (dependent variable) is explained by the independent variables (Risk assessment) at 61.1%. This indicated that the model was strong, as the independent variable highly explain the dependent variable. The adjusted R-square was used to compensate for additional variable in the model. In this case, the adjusted R-square is 60.8%. Findings on the effect of control environment on financial performance of banking institutions in Rwanda confirmed on table 4.15 present the value of R-square in this study was 51.1% means that the proportion of financial performance (dependent variable) is explained by the independent variables (Control environment) at 51.1%

Keywords: Performance of Financial Institutions, Internal Control System

Suggested Citation:

Maurya, Neelam and K, Vidhya and K., Dr. Umamaheswari, The Performance of Financial Institutions & Internal Control System- A Case Study of Guaranty Trust Bank, Kigali Rwanda (June 21, 2022). International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development (IJTSRD) Volume 6 Issue 4, May-June 2022 Available Online: www.ijtsrd.com e-ISSN: 2456 –6470, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4142512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M Anggono
Bank performance variable as represented by two alternative measures, namely ROA and ROE Posted: 2017
Bensonm , Muhunyo
effect of internal control systems on financial performance of public institutions of higher learning in Nairobi city county Posted: 2018
Bhupendra Dr , Deepankar Kumar Dr , Singh
Deposit mobilization & branch expansion dimensions-a critical analysis with special reference to Dashen bank Ethiopia
GIS Science Journal , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 175 - 197 Posted: 2022
S Kumar , Dr Bhupendra Kumar
Innovation in corporate cash holding & management: an empirical investigation
Empirical Economics Letters Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
484,103
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies