Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Entrepreneur on the Performance of Selected Quoted Construction Companies in Nigeria

21 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Emmanuel Omoniyi Awe

University of Calabar

Kenneth Diyoke

Nile University of Nigeria

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

The global shifts in management philosophy have resulted in an increasing number of multinational corporations requesting Corporate Entrepreneurship as part of their strategic planning process. It is on this note that the study aimed at examining the impact of corporate entrepreneur on the performance of selected quoted construction companies in Nigeria adopting Innovation, proactiveness, competitive aggression, risk taking, and autonomy as variables in the study. In pursuance of this objective, primary data were obtained by administering questionnaires to staffs of these purposively selected quoted construction companies in Nigeria using Ordinary Least Square Regression method to analyzed the results obtained with the help of the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) and it was observed that corporate entrepreneur has a significant impact on the performance of selected quoted construction companies in Nigeria. The study therefore recommended that the companies should continue in their innovativeness through adequate research among others.

Keywords: Corporate entrepreneur, Construction company, Innovation, Proactiveness and Risk taking.

JEL Classification: M.13, M21

Suggested Citation:

Awe, Emmanuel Omoniyi and Diyoke, Kenneth, Impact of Corporate Entrepreneur on the Performance of Selected Quoted Construction Companies in Nigeria (June 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4142666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4142666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J O Adeoti , M O Asabi
Analysis of Dimensions of Corporate Entrepreneurship and Organizational Performance in Nigeria
Amity Journal of Entrepreneurship , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2018
S N A Ambad , K A Wahab
The relationship between corporate entrepreneurship and firm performance: evidence from Malaysian large companies
International Journal of Business and Society , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 259 - 269 Posted: 2016
B Antoncic , R D Hisrich
Intrapreneurship: Construct Refinement and Cross-Cultural Validation
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 16 , p. 495 - 527 Posted: 2001
B Antoncic , R D Hisrich
Corporate entrepreneurship contingencies and organizational wealth creation
Journal of Management Development , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 518 - 550 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
785,362
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies