Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Perception, Market Reaction, and Post‐issue Performance in Bank Seasoned Equity Offerings.

27 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

C. N. V. Krishnan

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Banking & Finance

Yu He

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Using a large sample of bank seasoned equity offerings (SEO) from 2002 to 2017, we first document detailed descriptive statistics, and showed that nonperforming assets ratio, our primary measure of bank asset quality, reached the highest value immediately after the 2008 economic crisis, which also corresponds to a higher number of SEOs around these years because banks needed to recapitalize. The capital ratio, which is required to be at least at a minimum level (relative to risk‐weighted assets) for banks by regulation, also increased after the economic crisis, which may be due to a higher requirement for banks as well as banks’ desire to hold more capital. The SEO announcement period abnormal stock‐returns reached the lowest number around the economic crisis, as did the longer‐run 6‐month, post‐SEO cumulative abnormal returns and buy‐and‐hold abnormal returns. Examining the differences between banks, we found, in both univariate and multivariate regression results controlling for other variables, that the bank capital ratio as at the time of the SEO announcement is significantly and positively associated with announcement period abnormal returns, while nonperforming assets ratio of the bank as at the time of SEO announcements is not. However, the nonperforming assets ratio as at the time of the SEO announcements had a significantly negative association with post‐SEO, 6‐month longer‐run abnormal stock returns, while the capital ratio did not have any significant association. The nonperforming assets ratio as at the time of SEO announcement was also significantly and negatively related to bank return on assets 6 months and 12 months after SEO, while the capital ratio was not. Thus, investors appear to perceive a well‐ingrained, well‐publicized regulatory norm—the capital ratio—as indicative of value creation as at the time of bank SEO announcements, while loan asset quality, which may be relatively more opaque, may determine post‐SEO performance.

Keywords: Seasoned equity offering, SEO, capital ratio, nonperforming assets ratio, announcement period abnormal returns, post‐issue bank performance, investor perceptions

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, C. N. V. and He, Yu, Investor Perception, Market Reaction, and Post‐issue Performance in Bank Seasoned Equity Offerings. (June 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4142777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4142777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
955
RANK
735,901
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies