Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Committees: Implications for Disclosure Quality and Timeliness

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

47 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

Cristina Bailey

University of New Mexico - Department of Accounting

Jonathan Nash

University of New Hampshire

Le Emily Xu

University of New Hampshire - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: March 24, 2022

Abstract

To help companies comply with the certification requirements under Section 302 of SOX, the SEC recommends issuers form a disclosure committee, ‘for considering the materiality of information and determining disclosure obligations on a timely basis’ (SEC 2002a). While the importance of disclosure committees has been acknowledged by practice, little academic research has examined disclosure committees. In this study, we examine the effects of disclosure committees on disclosure quality and timeliness. We find that the presence of disclosure committees is associated with higher quality and more timely corporate disclosure. These results are distinct from the effects of other documented corporate governance mechanisms and robust to the use of controls for potential correlated omitted variables and endogeneity. In addition, we provide evidence that the benefits of disclosure committees on disclosure quality are greater if membership detail is publicly revealed and that benefits of the committee may be greatest for firms that experience a negative disclosure event. Lastly, we provide evidence that disclosure committees are associated with higher quality earnings announcements and lower likelihood of receiving a severe SEC comment letter. Collectively these results suggest disclosure committees are not merely ‘window dressing’, a conclusion with implications for practitioners, regulators, and academics interested in improving corporate disclosure practices.

Keywords: Disclosure Committee; Corporate Governance; Disclosure Quality; Disclosure Timeliness

JEL Classification: M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Cristina and Nash, Jonathan and Xu, Le Emily, Disclosure Committees: Implications for Disclosure Quality and Timeliness (March 24, 2022). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4143806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
464,511
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies