Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commodity Prices Under the Threat of Operational Disruptions: Labor Strikes at Copper Mines

48 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

Viviana Fernandez

Universidad Adolfo Ibañez

Boris Pastén

University of Chile

Pablo Tapia

University of Chile - Department of Business Administration

Rodrigo Andres Wagner

UAI Business School ; Growth Lab - Harvard University (Center for Int. Development)

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

The threat of short-term supply disruptions may matter for commodity prices, although their magnitude is hard to detect, for example, due to anticipation, storage and the relatively short duration of strikes. This article uses a century of labor strikes in Chile copper mines (1910-2010) to explore their effect on global commodity returns. Around strikes, copper displays cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) close to 200 basis points (bps). Consistent with the threat of supply disruptions, the effect comes almost fully from strikes at larger mines (CAR of 500 bps). In spite of strikes being transitory events, we also find a mirroring appreciation of the USD/CLP commodity currency. Out-of-sample forecasts for strikes during the decade 2000-2010 are reasonably accurate, suggesting that the commodity market response to such events has not varied much over time.

Keywords: Commodity currencies; Exchange Rates

JEL Classification: F31, F41

Suggested Citation:

Fernandez, Viviana and Pastén, Boris and Tapia, Pablo and Wagner, Rodrigo Andres, Commodity Prices Under the Threat of Operational Disruptions: Labor Strikes at Copper Mines (June 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4143940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4143940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
475,518
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Institutional & Transition Economics Policy Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies