Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Duality and Firm Performance During the 2020 Coronavirus Outbreak

34 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022

M. Kabir Hassan

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Reza Houston

Ball State University - Miller College of Business; George Mason University Center for Government Contracting

Md. Sydul Karim

Lawrence Technological University

Ahmed Sabit

University of Oklahoma

Abstract

Stewardship theory suggests CEO duality can provide strong leadership and facilitate the development and coordination of firm strategy.  These benefits should affect both firm risk and financial performance.  We use the 2020 coronavirus outbreak as a natural experiment to determine whether CEO duality is beneficial during crisis periods.  We find S&P 1500 firms with CEO duality exhibit smaller increases in default probability and credit default swap spreads than firms with non-duality.  We also find firms with CEO duality offer cumulative abnormal returns significantly higher than those of other firms.  CEO duality is more valuable at firms with higher information costs.  Our results indicate CEO duality was more valuable during the portion of the outbreak prior to the passage of the CARES Act.  These results are consistent with stewardship theory and indicate the concentration of power from CEO duality is beneficial during crisis periods.

Keywords: CEO duality, Firm Performance, default probability, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, M. Kabir and Houston, Reza and Karim, Md. Sydul and Sabit, Ahmed, CEO Duality and Firm Performance During the 2020 Coronavirus Outbreak. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4143247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4143247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
614,231
4 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies