Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of the Concept of Applied Strategic Analysis: The Aspect of Learning and Growth

15 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2022

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 22, 2022

Abstract

Research background – Learning and growth is one of the essential tools that companies ought to use in today's market economy in order to ensure their sustainable development in the long-term and, consequently, to achieve their maximum market value.

Purpose – This article is predominantly of theoretical nature and considers the possibility of using the applied strategic analysis technique that was developed by the author to analyze learning and growth in the course of a study of strategic aspects of learning growth. The technique is based on the balanced scorecard system of the same name.
Design/methodology/approach – Methodologically, the study is based on Kaplan and Norton's balanced scorecard concept and the author's concept of applied strategic analysis.

Findings – It is shown that applied strategic analysis of learning and growth envisages comparative evaluation, diagnostics of deviations and predictions of the values of the balanced scorecard metrics of learning and growth in the dimension of strategic objectives. It includes analysis of the level of motivation in employees, the volume of authroity delegation and whether their personal goals match company goals; analysis of the expansion capacity of information systems, and analysis of the quality of retraining and the creativity level of employees. The applied strategic analysis of learning and growth with comparative evaluation of the metrics of the level of motivation in employees, the volume of delegation to them and of the match between their personal and corporate goals, and concludes with a prediction of the values of factor measures of the quality of retraining and creativity development in employees.

Originality/value – The author comes to a conclusion that applied strategic analysis of learning and growth is a new and sufficiently effective instrucment for studying the strategic aspects of companies' performance that is associated with the training and development of their personnel. The instrument provides analytical support to strategic management as regards personnel training and development in today's conditions. Its results might be useful when working out managerial decisions for the company's short-term, medium-term and long-term plans in the area of learning and growth.

Keywords: applied strategic analysis, balanced scorecard, learning and growth, personnel, management, company

JEL Classification: L29, M12, M41, M53

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Development of the Concept of Applied Strategic Analysis: The Aspect of Learning and Growth (June 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4143378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4143378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
V I Barilenko
Kompleksniy analiz khozyaystvennoy deyatelnosti Posted: 2016
S A Boronenkova , M V Melnik
Kompleksniy economicheskiy analiz v upravlenii predpiyatiyem Posted: 2016
Moscow: Forum
M G Brown
Beyond the Balanced Scorecard. Improving Business Intelligence with Analytics Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
819,493
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies