Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Risk and Stock Returns of Companies Going Public by Merging with SPACs

Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2022/02

38 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022 Last revised: 27 Feb 2023

Brian Burnett

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Al (Aloke) Ghosh

UNC Charlotte

Lingfei Kong

Washington University in Saint Louis

Date Written: January 23, 2022

Abstract

SPAC-related regulatory efforts suggest that information risk may be unusually high for companies merging with SPACs (“de-SPAC”). We empirically examine this information risk hypothesis. Consistent with the SEC (2022) concerns, using several information risk proxies, we find that the individual information risk proxies and a composite risk measure is higher for de-SPACs than for traditional IPOs for the merger/IPO year. The information risk remains elevated for at least two subsequent years subsequent to the merger. Additionally, we find that our information risk score also explains de-SPAC underperformance documented previously. Evidence from the first trading day returns also suggests SPACs overpay for de-SPACs. Our results suggest that investors of de-SPACs are likely to be the beneficiaries of the SPAC regulation.

Keywords: SPACs, IPOs, information risk, stock returns, restatements, internal controls, stock exchanges

JEL Classification: G34, M41, O16

Suggested Citation:

Burnett, Brian and Ghosh, Al (Aloke) and Kong, Lingfei, Information Risk and Stock Returns of Companies Going Public by Merging with SPACs (January 23, 2022). Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2022/02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4143440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4143440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,405
RANK
184,062
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies