Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Entry Decisions, Accounting Signals, and Risk Management Disclosure

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2023

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

This study provides evidence that hedge accounting information under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, is related to rivals’ market entry decisions. Documenting accounting information’s relevance to competition decisions requires context-specific settings. Using data for the airline industry in the United States, I predict and find that entrants are less likely to enter routes in which incumbents report higher accumulated other comprehensive income from fuel hedging, an indication of lower future operating costs. As predicted, this relation is stronger after the adoption of SFAS 161, Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, in 2008, a systemic shock that significantly increases risk management disclosure requirements. The findings illustrate the product market relevance of hedge accounting signals and disclosure in the US airline industry and extend the understanding of SFAS 133 and SFAS 161 beyond the capital markets.

Keywords: airline industry, hedge accounting, strategic entry, risk management disclosure, SFAS 133, SFAS 161

Suggested Citation:

Zou, Youli, Strategic Entry Decisions, Accounting Signals, and Risk Management Disclosure (June 13, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144909
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies