Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG as a nonmarket strategy to cope with geopolitical tension: Empirical evidence from multinationals' ESG performance

Strategic Management Journal, Volume 46, No. 3, Pp. 693-722. [10.1002/smj.3671]

58 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2022 Last revised: 7 Feb 2025

Jin Hyung Kim

George Washington University

Jooyoung Kwak

Yonsei University

Hyung-Kun Park

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 16, 2024

Abstract

Research Summary
Although rising geopolitical tension is critically affecting multinational enterprises (MNEs), our understanding of geopolitics and its effects on corporate strategy is surprisingly limited. This study sheds light on this underexplored topic by examining the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy of foreign MNEs amid tension between their home and host countries. We argue that the media plays a critical role in shaping host-country public perceptions of such tension. As media-reported tension increases, foreign MNEs enhance their subsidiaries' ESG performance to alleviate potential institutional pressure from the host-country public. We further show that historical conflicts positively moderate this relationship, whereas ongoing conflicts serve as a scope condition that diminishes this relationship. This manifests that MNEs attempt to maximize ESG's insurance-like benefits in coping with geopolitics.


Managerial Summary
Rising geopolitical tension leading to a less stable global business environment highlights the growing importance of geopolitics and strategic responses of firms. This study explores how host-country media coverage of geopolitical tension affects foreign MNEs. If host-country news media reports more tense interactions between MNE's home and host countries, the MNE ex ante is likely to experience heightened pressure from the host-country public. Thus, we argue and show that MNEs subject to pressure from the host-country public intensify their ESG efforts to enjoy the insurance-like benefits of ESG's prosocial initiatives. Our study also shows that both past and ongoing conflicts between home and host countries differentially influence MNE's ESG efforts because the anticipated effectiveness of their strategy is heterogeneous.

Keywords: ESG, geopolitics, media, multinationals, nonmarket strategy

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jin Hyung and Kwak, Jooyoung and Park, Hyungkun, ESG as a nonmarket strategy to cope with geopolitical tension: Empirical evidence from multinationals' ESG performance (October 16, 2024). Strategic Management Journal, Volume 46, No. 3, Pp. 693-722. [10.1002/smj.3671], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4145509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/smj.3671
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
138 References
R Abdelal , J Kirshner
Strategy, economic relations, and the definition of national interests
Security Studies , volume 9 , issue 1-2 , p. 119 - 156 Posted: 1999
A Acharya
After liberal hegemony: The advent of a multiplex world order
Ethics and International Affairs , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 285 Posted: 2017
J Aguilera-Caracuel , J Guerrero-Villegas , M Vidal-Salazar , B Delgado-Márquez
International cultural diversification and corporate social performance in multinational enterprises: The role of slack financial resources
Management International Review , volume 55 , p. 323 - 353 Posted: 2015
R Aguilera , W Henisz , J Oxley , M Shaver
Special issue introduction: International strategy in an era of global flux
Strategy Science , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
344,140
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies