Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgetary Participation and Top Managers’ Earnings Forecasts

Journal of Management Accounting Research, 2025[10.2308/JMAR-2023-001]

Posted: 30 Jun 2022 Last revised: 17 Jan 2025

Souhei Ishida

Hitotsubashi University

Keita Iwasawa

Tokyo University of Science - School of Management

Date Written: December 04, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether and how budgetary participation practices affect top managers’ earnings forecasts. Previous research highlights that lower-level managers participating in the budgetary process may try to underestimate budgeted revenues or overestimate budgeted costs to make budgeted targets easier to achieve. This misleads top managers about a company’s true profit potential. This study utilizes management earnings forecasts released by top managers to proxy for their future earnings estimation and empirically tests the research model using data collected through a mail questionnaire survey and archival data on Japanese listed firms. We find that budgetary participation is positively associated with management forecast pessimism. Additionally, this positive association is more pronounced in firms with a stronger link between lower-level manager pay and performance. These results suggest that budgetary participation practices introduce bias into top managers’ earnings forecasts.

Keywords: budgetary participation, budgetary slack, management earnings forecast, forecast innovations, forecast errors

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ishida, Souhei and Iwasawa, Keita, Budgetary Participation and Top Managers’ Earnings Forecasts (December 04, 2024). Journal of Management Accounting Research, 2025[10.2308/JMAR-2023-001], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4146507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-2023-001
 Not Available for Download
51 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Y Aoki
Determinants of the intensity of bank-firm relationships: Evidence from Japan. The Review of Corporate Finance Studies cfad017 Posted: 2023
Y Aoki , T Kochiyama
The moderating effect of private information on the relation between financial reporting quality and corporate dividend efficiency
Accounting & Finance Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,150
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies