Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women on Board: A Study of Characteristics of Companies with at Least One Woman Director

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022

Dr Preet Deep Singh

Apna.Co

Date Written: June 26, 2022

Abstract

With increasing attention being given to the presence of females in decision-making positions in Politics as well as Corporates, this paper examines the characteristics of companies with at least one woman director on the Board. A sample of 305 companies listed on BSE is used for this analysis. Past research and global trends are analyzed and the findings are discussed. Results show that women directors are associated with higher profit and growth.

Keywords: women directors, corporate governance, analytical, India, listed companies

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Preet Deep, Women on Board: A Study of Characteristics of Companies with at Least One Woman Director (June 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4146723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4146723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B M Barber , T Odean
Boys will be boys: Gender, overconfidence, and common stock investment
Quarterly journal of Economics , p. 261 - 292 Posted: 2001
M A Carpenter , M A Geletkanycz , W G Sanders
Upper echelons research revisited: Antecedents, elements, and consequences of top management team composition
Journal of Management , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 749 - 778 Posted: 2004
K A Farrell , P L Hersch
Additions to corporate boards: the effect of gender
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
592,557
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies