Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expected Legal Liability, the Number of Financial Statement Information Signals, and Credit Ratings’ Quality

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4146006

57 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2022 Last revised: 19 Jul 2023

Petrus (Petri) Ferreira

Rice University

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Tim Liu

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Jianxin (Donny) Zhao

Emory University

Date Written: July 18, 2023

Abstract

This study uses passage of the Dodd-Frank Act as a setting to examine whether increased expected legal liability exposure faced by credit rating agencies affect the number of financial statement information signals required before rating changes. For upgrades, we predict and find that the expected greater legal exposure after the Act incentivized rating agencies to require more information signals. This effect is concentrated among firms in industries with high litigation risk. In addition, the greater required number of information signals resulted in improved upgrades quality. In contrast, the Act had little influence on the downgrade decision.

Keywords: Dodd-Frank Act, Financial statement information, Credit rating quality

JEL Classification: G3, G24

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Petrus H. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Liu, Tim and Zhao, Jianxin (Donny), Expected Legal Liability, the Number of Financial Statement Information Signals, and Credit Ratings’ Quality (July 18, 2023). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4146006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4146006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4146006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
V V Acharya , R Banerjee , M Crosignani , T Eisert , R Spigt
Exorbitant Privilege? Quantitative Easing and the Bond Market Subsidy of Prospective Fallen Angels Posted: 2022
A S Ahmed , D Wang , N Xu
An empirical analysis of the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on determinants of credit ratings
J. Bus. Finance. Account , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
F R Bach , D Heckerman , E Horvitz
Considering cost asymmetry in learning classifiers
J. Mach. Learn. Res , volume 7 , p. 1713 - 1741 Posted: 2006
R P Baghai , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Have Rating Agencies Become More Conservative? Implications for Capital Structure and Debt Pricing
J. Finance , volume 69 , p. 1961 - 2005 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,366
RANK
342,507
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies