Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Costs of Regulatory Uncertainty under the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (HFCAA)

51 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2022 Last revised: 20 Jun 2023

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Eric Krause

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 2023

Abstract

The Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (HFCAA), passed in 2020, threatened to delist Chinese issuers with uninspected auditors. Following the Act, several Chinese issuers took costly actions to alleviate investors’ delisting concerns by seeking secondary listings or engaging low-quality cross-border auditors. The negotiation period following the Act was fraught with uncertainty fueled by contradicting public statements. U.S. regulators consistently doubted the likelihood of an agreement, while Chinese regulators and the media consistently suggested a deal was forthcoming. We find that the market negatively (positively) reacted to statements from the U.S. regulators (media) and ignored statements made by the Chinese regulators. We also observe stronger market reactions for Chinese issuers with greater delisting costs. Overall, while its long-term benefits are still uncertain, the HFCAA and statements by U.S. regulators resulted in real and significant costs for companies and investors that need to be considered alongside the benefits. Ongoing U.S.-China tensions suggest that delisting risk may persist under the HFCAA.

Keywords: Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (HFCAA), PCAOB, Inspection, Chinese Auditors, Delisting, Market Reaction, Real effects

JEL Classification: M40, M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi and Krause, Eric, The Unintended Costs of Regulatory Uncertainty under the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (HFCAA) (June 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4147856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
W Bailey , G Andrew Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: Evidence from international cross-listings
J. Financ. Econ , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
B Bain
U.S. Says Speculation of Deal on China Stock Listings is Premature
Bloomberg Posted: 2022-03-24
J A Bennett , R W Sias , L T Starks
Greener pastures and the impact of dynamic institutional preferences
Rev. Fianc. Stud , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 1203 - 1238 Posted: 2003
J J Binder
Measuring the effects of regulation with stock price data: a new methodology: The University of Chicago Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
208,776
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies