Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Lower ESG Rated Companies Have Higher Systemic Impact? Empirical Evidence from Europe and the United States

30 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2022 Last revised: 14 Nov 2022

Karoline Bax

Technische Universität München (TUM) - TUM School of Management

Giovanni Bonaccolto

University "Kore" of Enna

Sandra Paterlini

University of Trento - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 27, 2022

Abstract

In recent years, companies have increasingly been characterized by environmental, social, and governance (ESG) scores, and investors and academics have raised questions concerning financial performance and investment risks. Now, as the European Banking Authority has acknowledged that ESG risks can potentially impact the economic and financial system, the debate on systemic risk has gained traction. Understanding the relationship between ESG merit and systemic risk is of utmost importance for the stability of the eco- nomic and financial system, still, research is limited. Relying on real-world European and US data, we quantify systemic risk by means of QL-CoVaR. Empirical analyses of the entire period from 2007-2021 show that compa- nies with high ESG scores tend to exhibit low QL-CoVaR values indicating a positive effect of ESG scores. Such evidence is confirmed by clustering the individual companies into ESG portfolios and focusing on COVID-19. Additional insights using the individual pillars are also provided.

Keywords: ESG, sustainability, systemic risks, CoVaR, financial stability

Suggested Citation:

Bax, Karoline and Bonaccolto, Giovanni and Paterlini, Sandra, Do Lower ESG Rated Companies Have Higher Systemic Impact? Empirical Evidence from Europe and the United States (June 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4147370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4147370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
185,154
4 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies