Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Disclosures of Pandemics as a Source of Risk Informative? Evidence from Changes in Equity Risk Before and After the COVID-19 Pandemic

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 4147366

Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Keno Theile

Kühne Logistics University

Kai Hoberg

Kuehne Logistics University

Vinod R. Singhal

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: June 27, 2022

Abstract

The materialization of supply chain risks leads to negative operational and financial consequences. Gathering information on risks in a supply chain is still a significant challenge for supply chain members. However, firms are required to disclose their material risks in 10-K reports, leading to a substantial amount of information on their risk status. However, whether the information is informative when risks indeed materialize remains an unanswered question. Given the unique natural experiment presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we use the event study methodology to gauge the impact of COVID-19 on firms’ equity risk, idiosyncratic risk, and systematic risk. Our analysis provides evidence that firms disclosing pandemics as a source of risk experience a positive abnormal increase in equity risk and idiosyncratic risk and no abnormal change in systematic risk due to COVID-19. Hence, risk disclosures are informative because firms disclosing the risk of a pandemic are indeed perceived riskier than non-disclosing firms when the risk materializes.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, risk disclosures, supply chain risk management

JEL Classification: E0, E6, F0, G12, I0, M2

Suggested Citation:

Theile, Keno and Hoberg, Kai and Singhal, Vinod R., Are Disclosures of Pandemics as a Source of Risk Informative? Evidence from Changes in Equity Risk Before and After the COVID-19 Pandemic (June 27, 2022). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 4147366, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4147366
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies