Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Equity Value Relevance of Carbon Emissions

Handbook of Business and Climate Change (Edward Elgar Publishing)

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4148960

23 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Jody Grewal

Joseph L. Rotman School of Management - University of Toronto

Gordon D. Richardson

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: June 28, 2022

Abstract

This chapter presents a selected review of studies that speak to the two related questions of whether capital markets view a firm’s carbon emissions as value relevant and if so, the importance of mandated carbon disclosure in facilitating investors’ assessment. The empirical literature consistently documents an inverse relation between the volume of carbon emissions and firm value, suggesting that markets assess a latent carbon liability commensurate with the firm’s carbon emissions. Importantly, the more recent literature confirms significant benefits to mandated carbon emissions disclosures, largely related to the enhanced ability to benchmark a firm’s carbon performance relative to its industry or sector peers. These studies reveal that the assessed latent carbon liability is related to a firm’s relative carbon intensity rank and that both internal discovery and external pressure effects resulting from enhanced benchmarking, lead to reductions in carbon emissions.

Keywords: Value relevance, greenhouse gas emissions, carbon liability, mandatory carbon reporting

Suggested Citation:

Clarkson, Peter and Grewal, Jyothika and Richardson, Gordon D., The Equity Value Relevance of Carbon Emissions (June 28, 2022). Handbook of Business and Climate Change (Edward Elgar Publishing), Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4148960, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4148960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4148960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S &verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
P Bolton , M Kacperczyk
Do investors care about carbon risk? Forthcoming
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 517 - 549 Posted: 2021
L Chapple , P Clarkson , D Gold
The cost of carbon: Capital market effects of the proposed emissions trading scheme (ETS)
ABACUS , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2013
Y Chen , M Hung , Y Wang
The effect of mandatory CSR disclosure on firm profitability and social externalities: Evidence from China
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,185
RANK
229,218
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies