Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Payout Policy and Test of Life Cycle Theory; Evidence from Nepalese Commercial Banks

Dhungana, A. and Devkota, T. P. (2022) Corporate Payout Policy and Test of Life Cycle Theory; Evidence from Nepalese Commercial Banks, NRB Economic Review, 50-79

30 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2022 Last revised: 19 Apr 2023

Ajaya Dhungana

Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON); Kathmandu University School of Management (KUSOM)

Tej Prasad Devkota

Securities Board of Nepal

Date Written: November 22, 2022

Abstract

Dividend policy of firm in theoretical finance is one of the most controversial issue, various theories of dividend policy try to explain the dividend behavior of the firm. The dividend distributed by a firm to its shareholder is very different when it is viewed from the perspective of the company’s life cycle. If no regulation forces, then firms at initial stage retain all their earning and pay no dividend, since they have higher investment opportunities. The firms at maturity stage have less investment opportunities, slow pace of growth rate and lower cost of raising external capital, hence, mature firms retain less and pays higher dividend. DeAngelo, DeAngelo and Stulz (2006), empirical work on life cycle hypothesis suggests that firm increases their dividend with their maturity, where the maturity is measured through the ratio of earned to contributed capital or earned capital to total assets. This study investigates the dividend behavior of Nepalese commercial banks, by using the ten years panel data for the period from 2010 to 2019. Using conventional proxies of life cycle, the result of the study consistently shows that Nepalese listed commercial bank follow dividend life cycle theory. The result also shows that larger firms pay higher dividend and dividend history has positive relation with dividend payment. Dividend yield has been used as proxy for dividend payment, which has been used to for the robustness test, which also supports the dividend life cycle theory among Nepalese commercial bank.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Firm Life Cycle

JEL Classification: G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Dhungana, Ajaya and Devkota, Tej Prasad, Corporate Payout Policy and Test of Life Cycle Theory; Evidence from Nepalese Commercial Banks (November 22, 2022). Dhungana, A. and Devkota, T. P. (2022) Corporate Payout Policy and Test of Life Cycle Theory; Evidence from Nepalese Commercial Banks, NRB Economic Review, 50-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4148865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4148865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
N Adhikari
Managers' views on dividend policy of Nepalese enterprises
NRB Economic Review , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 90 - 120 Posted: 2014
N Adhikari
Determinants of Corporate Dividend Payout in Nepal
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 53 - 74 Posted: 2015
M Baker , J Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
B Bhandari , T Pokharel
Corporate Dividend Policy: A Study of Commercial Banks of Nepal
Administration and Management Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 24 - 44 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
552,669
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies