Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Digital Competencies of Controllers: Evidence From the Netherlands

56 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2022 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Bert Steens

VU University

Jan Bots

Nyenrode Business University

Koen Derks

Nyenrode Business University

Abstract

Prior research foresees that advancing digital technologies call for increasing competency levels of controllers. Competency theory predicts that achieving this will require increasing knowledge of these technologies and the ability to task-specifically use it. Empirical evidence of the recognition of these necessary conditions is missing. Drawing on competency literature and extant research on influences of nine technologies, we survey 453 senior controllers. We find for all technologies that they perceive their current knowledge and competency levels lower than required and that their expectations of the required competency growth correlate positively with perceived current knowledge at any current competency level, even for task-specific technologies that have the highest current and future competency scores (big data, analytics, visualization). However, their expectations may underestimate the future digital competency levels required for staying relevant. Our evidence urges controllers to work on their digital competencies and put task-specific knowledge first for each new competency.

Keywords: digital competencies, controller, management accountant, knowledge, digital technologies

Suggested Citation:

Steens, H. B. A. and Bots, Jan and Derks, Koen, Developing Digital Competencies of Controllers: Evidence From the Netherlands. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4148036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4148036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
580,030
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies