Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Management Controls in Different Cultural Regions: An Empirical Study of Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and Nordic Practices

Journal of Management Control, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 273-334, 2022

Posted: 7 Jul 2022 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

Teemu Malmi

Aalto University School of Business

David S. Bedford

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Rolf Brühl

ESCP Europe Business School Berlin

Johan Dergard

Lund University

Sophie Hoozée

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Otto Janscheck

University of Vienna

Jeanette Willert

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: May 23, 2022

Abstract

Most cross-cultural studies on management control have compared Anglo-Saxon firms to Asian firms, leaving us with limited understanding on potential variations between developed Western societies. This study addresses differences and similarities in a wide variety of management control practices in Anglo-Saxon (Australia, English Canada), Germanic (Austria, non-Walloon Belgium, Germany) and Nordic firms (Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden). Unique data is collected through structured interviews from 584 strategic business units (SBUs). We find that management control structures in Anglo-Saxon SBUs, relative to those from Germanic and Nordic regions, are more decentralized and participative and place greater emphasis on performance-based pay. Comparing Germanic SBUs to Nordic ones, we find Germanic SBUs to rely more on individual behaviour in performance evaluation, whereas Nordic SBUs rely more on quantitative measures and value alignment in employee selection. We also observe numerous similarities in MC practices between the three cultural regions. The implications of these findings for theory development are outlined.

Keywords: Cultural regions, Management control practices, National culture, Survey

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Malmi, Teemu and Bedford, David S. and Brühl, Rolf and Dergard, Johan and Hoozée, Sophie and Janscheck, Otto and Willert, Jeanette, The Use of Management Controls in Different Cultural Regions: An Empirical Study of Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and Nordic Practices (May 23, 2022). Journal of Management Control, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 273-334, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4148481
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies