Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and IPO: Evidence from GCC Firms

56 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

AbdulRahman Husain

University of Bahrain

Yomna Abdulla

University of Bahrain

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the persistence of the dividend policy following the initial public offering (IPO) in non-financial Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) firms during the period 2000-2019. Using various regression models, we confirm that non-financial GCC firms maintain a persistent dividend policy from their IPO year onwards, consistent with the imprinting theory rather than the life cycle theory. This finding is more pronounced in large firms and higher-profitability firms due to their better ability to maintain a persistent dividend policy. The results also indicate that the persistence of dividend policy is affected by macroeconomic conditions such as the financial crisis and drop in oil prices.

Keywords: IPO, dividend policy, GCC, imprinting theory, lifecycle theory

Suggested Citation:

Husain, AbdulRahman and Abdulla, Yomna, Dividend Policy and IPO: Evidence from GCC Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4149262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4149262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
M Abu Manneh , K Naser
Determinants of corporate dividends policy: Evidence from an emerging economy
International Journal of Economics and Finance , p. 229 - 239 Posted: 2015
H Ahmed , A Y Javid
The determinants of dividend policy in Pakistan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 29 , p. 110 - 125 Posted: 2009
J Al-Ajmi , H Abo Hussain
Corporate dividends decisions: Evidence from Saudi Arabia
The Journal of Risk Finance , p. 41 - 56 Posted: 2011
D Al-Kuwari
Determinants of the dividend policy in emerging stock exchanges: The case of GCC countries
Global Economy & Finance Journal , p. 38 - 63 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
487
RANK
538,134
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies