Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Politics at Work

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-86

89 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

Emanuele Colonnelli

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Valdemar Pinho Neto

Brazilian School of Economics and Finance

Edoardo Teso

Northwestern University - Department of Managerial Economics and Decision Sciences (MEDS)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 27, 2022

Abstract

We study how individual political views shape firm behavior and labor market outcomes. Using new micro-data on the political affiliation of business owners and private-sector workers in Brazil over the 2002–2019 period, we first document the presence of political assortative matching: business owners are significantly more likely to employ copartisan workers. Political assortative matching is larger in magnitude than assortative matching along gender and racial lines. We then provide three sets of results consistent with the presence of employers’ political discrimination. First, several patterns in the micro-data and an event study are consistent with a discrimination channel. Second, we conduct an incentivized resume rating field experiment showing that owners have a direct preference for copartisan workers opposed to workers from a different party. Third, we conduct representative large- scale surveys of owners and workers revealing that labor market participants view employers’ discrimination as the leading explanation behind our findings. We conclude by presenting evidence suggesting that political discrimination in the workplace has additional real consequences: copartisan workers are paid more and are promoted faster within the firm, despite being less qualified; firms displaying stronger degrees of political assortative matching grow less than comparable firms.

JEL Classification: D22,D72,D73,G0,G3,G4,J0,J15,J2,J3,J7,O0,O1

Suggested Citation:

Colonnelli, Emanuele and Pinho Neto, Valdemar and Teso, Edoardo, Politics at Work (June 27, 2022). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4149761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4149761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
F Alfridi , A Dhillon , S Sharma
The ties that bind us: social networks and productivity in the factory
CEPR Discussion Paper Number DP14687 Posted: 2020
J G Altonji , R M Blank
Race and Gender in the Labor Market
Handbook of Labor Economics Posted: 1999
J G Altonji , C R Pierret
Employer Learning and Statistical Discrimination
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , p. 313 - 350 Posted: 2001
K Arrow
The Theory of Discrimination
Discrimination in Labor Market , p. 3 - 33 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
206,808
4 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies