Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate-related Disclosure Commitment of the Lenders, Credit Rationing, and Borrower Environmental Performance

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

75 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Haekwon Lee

The University of Sydney

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Anthony Saunders

New York University - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Using lenders who become members of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) as a plausible exogenous shock, we examine whether and how lenders’ commitment to transparent climate-related disclosures affects borrower firms’ environmental performance. We find that borrower firms of TCFD-member lenders, relative to control firms, significantly improve their environmental performance after the TCFD launch. This effect is concentrated among polluting borrower firms. Our analysis further reveals that lenders’ climate-related disclosure commitments influence borrower firms’ environmental performance through both credit rationing and monitoring mechanisms. Specifically, polluting borrower firms face higher borrowing costs, reduced access to credit, and increased incorporation of environmental action covenants in their loan agreements. Additionally, polluting borrower firms of TCFD-member lenders experience heightened financial constraints. Finally, borrower firms of TCFD-member lenders are more likely to adopt the TCFD framework for climate-related disclosure after the TCFD establishment. Together, these findings shed light on the role of lenders in driving corporate environmental performance improvement through their commitment to transparent climate-related disclosures.

Keywords: Climate-related Disclosure Commitment, Credit Rationing, Monitoring, Borrower Environmental Performance

JEL Classification: G21, G30, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Lee, Haekwon and Qiu, Buhui and Saunders, Anthony, Climate-related Disclosure Commitment of the Lenders, Credit Rationing, and Borrower Environmental Performance (April 01, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4150069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4150069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
M Adelino , M A Ferreira
Bank Ratings and Lending Supply: Evidence from Sovereign Downgrades
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 1709 - 1746 Posted: 2016
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
B Ambrose , J Conklin , ; , J Yoshida
Credit Rationing, Income Exaggeration, and Adverse Selection in the Mortgage Market
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 6 , p. 2637 - 2686 Posted: 2016
N Ameli , P Drummond , A Bisaro , M Grubb , ; , H Chenet
Climate Finance and Disclosure for Institutional Investors: Why Transparency is Not Enough
Climatic Change , volume 160 , p. 565 - 589 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,435
RANK
66,900
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies