Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technological Peer Pressure and Skill Specificity of Job Postings

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, 40 (3): 2106-2139

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2022 Last revised: 28 Apr 2023

Yi Cao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Shijun Cheng

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF), Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Chi Wan

San Diego State University

Date Written: March 16, 2023

Abstract

Human capital is a major impetus for technological innovation. We examine the relation between the technological dimension of product market competition and the disclosure of skill requirements in job postings. On the one hand, technological competition may raise the urgency of recruiting tech talent and make firms provide more-specific skill requirements. On the other hand, technological competition can increase the proprietary costs of skill requirement disclosure. Using technological peer pressure as a measure of technological competition, we find that firms facing intense technological competition provide more-specific skill requirements for tech positions, suggesting that the disclosure benefits outweigh the proprietary costs when firms face pressure to innovate. The effect of technological peer pressure is more pronounced among firms that make only incremental innovations and less pronounced among firms that rely on trade secrets or have greater industry peer presence in close geographical proximity. Our study documents a distinct relationship between technological competition and voluntary disclosure targeted to labor market participants.

Keywords: job postings, innovation, competition, voluntary disclosure, labor market, technology

JEL Classification: M2, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Yi and Cheng, Shijun and Tucker, Jennifer and Wan, Chi, Technological Peer Pressure and Skill Specificity of Job Postings (March 16, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, 40 (3): 2106-2139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4150829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4150829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
D S Almeling , D W Snyder , M Sapoznikow , W E Mccollum , J Weader
A statistical analysis of trade secret litigation in federal courts
Gonzaga Law Review , volume 45 , p. 291 - 334 Posted: 2010
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Y Park
Intellectual property rights, holdup, and the incentives for innovation disclosure Posted: 2020
J Azar , I Marinescu , M Steinbaum , B Taska
Concentration in US labor markets: Evidence from online vacancy data , volume 66 Posted: 2020
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,410
RANK
98,680
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies