Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are ESG Ratings Informative About Companies' Socially Responsible Behaviors Abroad? Evidence from the Russian Invasion of Ukraine

Accountability in a Sustainable World Quarterly, Forthcoming.

37 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 Apr 2023

Daniyal Ahmed

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Elizabeth Demers

University of Waterloo

Jurian Hendrikse

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Philip Joos

Tilburg University; TIAS School for Business and Society

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

We use the Russian invasion of Ukraine as a revelation of the usefulness of ESG ratings to assess corporate socially responsible behaviors abroad. Using data on Stoxx 600 firms’ Russian exposure, pre-invasion Russia-related disclosures, and ESG scores, our findings are threefold. First, we find that more highly-rated ESG firms were not less likely to operate in Russia nor more likely to meaningfully inform investors about such activities. Second, in response to the Western outrage about the atrocities committed by Russia, many firms scrambled to announce the suspension or divestment of their Russian operations, but those firms that are alleged to be more socially responsible were neither quicker, nor more likely, to announce such actions. Third, we find that, from an investor perspective, both the materiality of firms’ Russian exposure and the extent of disclosure about such exposure negatively impacted returns after the outbreak of the war, while investing in more highly-rated ESG firms did not offer any protection. Our results indicate that investing in highly-rated ESG firms may be an exercise in futility as such firms are neither more likely to exert socially responsible behaviors abroad, nor are their shareholders better protected against the stock market fallout after an important geopolitical shock. Our results are robust to using data from 7 different ratings providers, as well as to using each of social and human rights scores.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, Sustainability, Sustainable Investment, Russia, Ukraine

JEL Classification: F51, F60, G11, G15, G32, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Daniyal and Demers, Elizabeth and Hendrikse, Jurian and Joos, Philip and Lev, Baruch Itamar, Are ESG Ratings Informative About Companies' Socially Responsible Behaviors Abroad? Evidence from the Russian Invasion of Ukraine (March 01, 2023). Accountability in a Sustainable World Quarterly, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4151996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4151996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
S Agini
Saudi Arabia's $2bn swing at golf shakes up global game
Financial Times Posted: 2022-06-11
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash. Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
F Berg , J F Kölbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
F Berg , J F Kölbel , R Rigobon
Is History Repeating Itself? The (Un)Predictable Past of ESG Ratings Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,120
RANK
68,948
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies