Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual-Class Share Structure and Dynamics of Borrowing Costs

37 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2022 Last revised: 21 Nov 2023

Cheng-Few Lee

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - New Brunswick/Piscataway

Xiaodan Li

Nanjing University of Science and Technology

Min‐Teh Yu

National Tsing Hua University

Yang Zhao

NanKai University

Date Written: July 3, 2022

Abstract

[enter Abstract Body]This study investigates how the borrowing costs of dual- and single-class firms evolve as firms age. Conducting an empirical analysis of U.S. listed firms, we find that dual-class firms have higher borrowing costs than single-class counterparts only in the middle stage of the life cycle and no significant difference in bank loan spreads between dual- and single-class firms in other stages of the life cycle. Our results also uncover that the life cycle profile of borrowing costs is concave and hump-shaped for dual-class firms but not for single-class firms, and this hold-up effect on dual-class firms causes the difference in borrowing costs between dual- and single-class firms. Specifically, the lending banks use advantage information to hold up bank-dependent dual-class firms for higher borrowing costs than single-class firms in the middle stage of the life cycle.

Keywords: borrowing costs, dual-class structure, firm age, bank relationship, information advantage, hold-up theory

JEL Classification: G21, G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Cheng-Few and Li, Xiaodan and Yu, Min-Teh and Zhao, Yang, Dual-Class Share Structure and Dynamics of Borrowing Costs (July 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
H Aslan , P Kumar
Strategic ownership structure and the cost of debt
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 2257 - 2299 Posted: 2012
B Amoako-Adu , B F Smith
Dual-class firms: Capitalization, ownership structure and recapitalization back into single class
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 1083 - 1111 Posted: 2001
F Braggion , M Giannetti
Changing corporate governance norms: Evidence from dual class shares in the UK
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 37 , p. 15 - 27 Posted: 2019
S Chava , D Livdan , A Purnanandam
Do shareholder rights affect the cost of bank loans?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 2973 - 3004 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies