Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Financial Literacy and Financial Reporting Misconduct

44 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2022

Mahmoud Gad

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Lars Helge Haß

University of Strathclyde - Strathclyde Business School; Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Fani Kalogirou

UCP-Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether employees’ financial literacy is associated with financial reporting misconduct. We argue that greater financial literacy can reduce misconduct by enabling employees to identify and expose accounting-related fraudulent behavior of managers, increasing the ex-ante cost of intentional misconduct. Using a novel measure of average employee financial literacy, we find a negative association between financial literacy and the likelihood of financial reporting misconduct, as well as a positive association between financial literacy and the probability of whistleblowing. We also find that this effect is more pronounced in firms where employee incentives are less aligned with those of managers as captured by the low levels of employee stock options. Our findings are consistent with the positive externalities of human capital.

Keywords: financial reporting, employees, financial literacy, misreporting, fraud

JEL Classification: G34, J44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gad, Mahmoud and Haß, Lars Helge and Hribar, Paul and Kalogirou, Fani, Employee Financial Literacy and Financial Reporting Misconduct (April 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4152589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J M Abowd , J Haltiwanger , R Jarmin , J Lane , P Lengermann , K Mccue , K Sandusky , Carol Corrado , John Haltiwanger , Daniel Sichel
The relation among human capital, productivity, and market value: Building up from micro evidence
Measuring capital in the new economy Posted: 2005
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
The AICPA Precertification Core Competency Framework (Reference guide) Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
200,166
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies