Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender, Competition, and Performance: International Evidence

89 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2022 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Qiyuan Peng

University of Dayton - School of Business Administration

Rui Shen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Gabriel Wong

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

Using a hand-collected sample of 18,269 equity analysts from 42 countries over the period 20042019, we establish an intriguing negative association between a country’s institutional/economic development and its female share of equity analysts. We show that, in individualistic countries only, there is no gender gap in analyst forecast accuracy. We further show that female analysts are more skilled and more likely to drop out when underperforming in individualistic countries compared to peers in collectivistic countries. The evidence supports our hypothesis that the national cultural value of individualism encourages women to make career choices consistent with their general aversion to competition.

Keywords: gender; competition; equity analysts; forecast error; individualism; international evidence

JEL Classification: G14; G15; G24; J16; D90

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kai and Peng, Qiyuan and Shen, Rui and Wong, Gabriel, Gender, Competition, and Performance: International Evidence (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4152486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Raj Aggarwal , Mara Faccio , Omrane Guedhami , Chuck C Y Kwok
Culture and finance: An introduction
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 466 - 474 Posted: 2016
Steffen Andersen , Seda Ertac , Uri Gneezy , John A List , Sandra Maximiano
Gender, competitiveness, and socialization at a young age: Evidence from a matrilineal and a patriarchal society
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 95 , p. 1438 - 1443 Posted: 2013
Kee - Bae , René M Hong , Hongping Stulz , Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Kee - Bae , Hongping Hong , Michael Tan , Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,335
RANK
129,684
2 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies