Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extreme Weather Events and Discretionary Spending

50 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2022 Last revised: 24 May 2024

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 14, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of extreme weather events on firms' discretionary spending. We expect weather events to impose unexpected costs on firms, which likely leads managers to pursue opportunities to increase cash flows to fund operations. Additionally, extreme weather has been shown to induce significant long-run uncertainty, and extant theory suggests that individuals facing uncertainty often make more short-term-focused decisions. Accordingly, we predict that firms exposed to more extreme weather will respond through reductions in discretionary spending. Using a difference-indifferences empirical design, we document an association between extreme weather exposure and abnormal discretionary expenditure cuts. We also find that this relation varies predictably with several cross-sectional factors, including firms' susceptibility to weather shocks, external monitoring, and managerial incentives. Further, we find that extreme weather events impact both myopic spending cuts and cuts likely reflecting strategic business decisions. Finally, we document that extreme weather exposure is associated with an increased incidence of "just meeting" earnings benchmarks and a reduction in innovative output. This study provides new evidence on how firms respond to the growing threat of weather events and adds to the broader literature on the capital market consequences of climate-related risks.

Keywords: Extreme weather events, discretionary expenditures, innovation outputs, managerial myopia, climate risks

JEL Classification: G32, M12, M40, M41, O32, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James and Kleppe, Tyler J., Extreme Weather Events and Discretionary Spending (August 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4152135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
J M Addoum , D T Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and establishment sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
S Alok , N Kumar , R Wermers
Do fund managers misestimate climatic disaster risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1146 - 1183 Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh
The financial materiality of climate change: Evidence from a global survey Posted: 2021
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,155
RANK
184,612
3 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies