Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of Corporate Social Responsibility in Maintaining a Sustainable Competitive Advantage in the Health Insurance Industry

92 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2023

Anthony Tapiwa Mazikana

University of Zimbabwe

Date Written: July 4, 2022

Abstract

This research on the effectiveness of corporate social responsibility in maintaining a sustainable competitive advantage in the health insurance industry was carried out because of poor performance of health insurance organizations such as First Mutual Health Zimbabwe, Zimnat Lion Insurance Company Ltd, CBZ Life Limited, Heritage Life Assurance Company and Eagle Insurance Company. The specific objectives of the research were to determine the relationship between CSR and sustainable competitive advantage, to establish strategies which can be implemented to incorporate CSR in the goals and objectives, to establish the relationship between CSR and brand recognition in the health insurance industry and to benchmark CSR to best practices in the health insurance industry. This study adopted theories such as Stakeholder theory and the three Domain Model. This research adopted positivism research philosophy to collect data from a diverse samples in a wider perspective by means of a more structured research instruments. This study also adopted mixed research strategy and used a cross sectional survey research design. The population of the study of 1200 was taken from managerial and non-managerial employees of health insurance organizations. The researcher adopted Krejcie and Morgan (1970) to determine a sample of 278 participants through a purposive sampling technique. Through this study it was established that CSR helps the organization to reduce business risk. Some respondents noted that CSR helps the organization in brand building, CSR leads to brand and customer loyalty, CSR results in long term market share as well as increased sales, CSR creates a favourable external environment, CSR increases productivity in an organization and CSR ensures better product quality. Most respondents agreed that the company should adopt a strategic stance towards CSR. Others noted that the company should incorporate CSR in the goals and objectives of an organization resulting in sustainable competitive advantage. Respondents noted that CSR leads to brings new customers. Other respondents noted that CSR leads to repeated purchases, CSR results in increased sales, CSR affect the brand image and CSR have economic benefits and is considered as something which impacts on brand recognition. Respondents agreed that a company should develop a benchmark method that includes economic, social and environmental aspects as well as international aspects of CSR. Some noted that a company should compare its CSR trends, a company should have a look at CSR reports at a global perspective and an organization should have CSR systems. An organization should adopt business code of ethics, which will outline employee conduct on issues such as ethics, values, environment, diversity, employee respect and customer service.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, competitive advantage, market share, profitability, sales revenue

Suggested Citation:

Mazikana, Anthony Tapiwa, The Effectiveness of Corporate Social Responsibility in Maintaining a Sustainable Competitive Advantage in the Health Insurance Industry (July 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4153641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4153641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
J Abor , C K Adjasi
Corporate governance and the small and medium enterprises sector: theory and implications
Corporate Governance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 2017
Abdolvand M Charsetad , P
Corporate Social Responsibility and Brand Equity in Industrial Marketing
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 273 - 284 Posted: 2013
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in Corporate Social Responsibility: A Multilateral Theory of social Change in Organisations , volume 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
K Alafi , F J H Al Sufy
Corporate social responsibility associated with customer satisfaction and financial performance: A case study with housing Banks in Jordan
International Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 2 , issue 15 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
RANK
197,604
1 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies