Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study of the Implementation of the Nine-Year Rule for Long-Serving Independent Directors

Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-18

24 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2022 Last revised: 13 Sep 2022

Victor C.S. Yeo

Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: June 22, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the implementation of the “nine-year” rule for independent directors who have served for an aggregate of more than nine years on the board of listed companies in Singapore. It presents information and data on how companies whose independent directors were affected by the implementation of the rule in January 2022 and discusses its impact on these companies and directors.

Suggested Citation:

Yeo, Victor Chuan Seng, Study of the Implementation of the Nine-Year Rule for Long-Serving Independent Directors (June 22, 2022). Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4153676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4153676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,481
RANK
157,252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies