Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Population Aging, Retail Investor Characteristics and Corporate Earnings Management

38 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022

Jin Roc Lv

Australian National University (ANU)

Emma Schultz

Australian National University (ANU)

Garry J. Twite

Financial Research Network (FIRN); University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics; University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 6, 2022

Abstract

We study how retail investor characteristics affect earnings quality, exploiting the well-documented home bias in equity holdings and the cross-sectional, county-level differences in US age demographics to explore how an aging population affects corporate earnings management. To do so, we use previous evidence of a positive relationship between investor age and holding period, and a negative relationship between investor holding period and earnings management to argue that senior investors will reduce managers’ myopic investment behaviors and, ultimately, their earnings management behavior. Consistent with our prediction, we find that an increase in the fraction of seniors residing in a county is associated with a reduction in both accrual-based and real-activity earnings management of firms headquartered in the area. Taken together, our results provide strong evidence that retail investor characteristics impact corporate earnings quality.

Keywords: Population aging; Retail investor characteristics; Earnings management; Equity home bias; Local seniors

JEL Classification: G11; M41; P23

Suggested Citation:

Lv, Jin Roc and Schultz, Emma and Twite, Garry J. and Twite, Garry J., Population Aging, Retail Investor Characteristics and Corporate Earnings Management (June 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4154866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering? Posted: 2017
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , P Kroos
Organization identity and earnings manipulation
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 58 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
RANK
420,501
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies