Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility, Investor Dividend Demand, and Corporate Dividend Policy

45 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2022

Xiang Dai

Australian National University (ANU)

Jin Roc Lv

Australian National University (ANU)

Emma Schultz

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: July 6, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether corporate social responsibility (CSR) affects the relationship between investors’ dividend demand and corporate dividend policy. We argue that firms are motivated by their sense of social responsibility, more specifically, that firms with stronger CSR will be more responsive to the demand for dividend income from their investors. Consistent with our prediction, we show that the effect of local seniors, measured as the fraction of people aged 65 and above residing in the same county as firm headquarters, on corporate dividend policy is 24.8% stronger in high-CSR firms than in low-CSR firms. Our results are robust to the choice of both our dividend and CSR measure as well as to the use of propensity score matching and instrumental variable analysis to address potential endogeneity concerns. Taken together, our findings suggest that, as firms’ CSR increase, so too does their responsiveness to investor demands.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR); Corporate dividend policy; Investor dividend demand; Local dividend clienteles

JEL Classification: G32; G35; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Xiang and Lv, Jin Roc and Schultz, Emma, Corporate Social Responsibility, Investor Dividend Demand, and Corporate Dividend Policy (July 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4154921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
322,813
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies