Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Correspondence Between Management's Discussion and Analysis and the Face of the Financial Statements

63 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2022

Thomas C. Hagenberg

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Rafael Rogo

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: June 30, 2022

Abstract

We develop a theory and a text-analytic method to model managers’ translation of economic activity into the preparation of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). Our approach considers both quantitative and qualitative accounting information by linking numerical changes in the financial statements with year-over-year textual modifications to the MD&A. We use our method to construct a measure of the expected disclosure, given firms’ underlying economics as captured by changes in the financial statements. Next, we examine deviations from this expectation to examine how the market incorporates different aspects of disclosures into stock prices. We theorize and document that the edit patterns of MD&A modifications and their connection to the financial statements convey different signals about firm value. While the market often correctly interprets the sign of those signals, we show that the immediate response is severely incomplete, providing a more nuanced view of the breakdown in communication between managers and investors.

Keywords: Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Text Analysis, Topic Modeling, Financial Statement Analysis, Disclosure Informativeness

JEL Classification: C18, M4

Suggested Citation:

Hagenberg, Thomas and McMullin, Jeff L. and Rogo, Rafael, On the Correspondence Between Management's Discussion and Analysis and the Face of the Financial Statements (June 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4154534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
369,949
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies