Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EDGAR Implementation, Unionization, and Strategic Disclosure

57 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2022 Last revised: 8 Jan 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Xuan Wu

Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen

Qin Tan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Lin Cheng

The University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Date Written: October 05, 2024

Abstract

This study focuses on the effect of disclosure processing frictions in labor markets. We go back in time thirty years ago and examine whether firms facing strong organized labor strategically responded to the implementation of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system, which substantially reduced labor unions’ information processing costs. Consistent with firms having incentives to maintain an information advantage over unions for bargaining purposes, we find that they reduce financial statement disaggregation, the likelihood and frequency of management forecasts, and the proportion of good news forecasts. Our study is the first to investigate the implications of information processing costs for labor markets and suggests that an SEC mandate intended to reduce disclosure processing costs for investors caused unintended strategic responses by firms facing proprietary cost of disclosures in other markets. 

Keywords: information processing cost, EDGAR implementation, labor union, proprietary cost of disclosures, strategic disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Wu, Xuan and Tan, Qin and Cheng, Lin, EDGAR Implementation, Unionization, and Strategic Disclosure (October 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4155581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
Inna Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,273
RANK
91,652
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies