Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Default Risk: Evidence from China

26 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2022

Chao Zhang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Can HUANG

Capital University of Economics and Business

Yining Shi

Yining Shi; Imperial College London

Abstract

This paper documents a negative association between firms' corporate governance measures and bond default risk in China, based on a substantial bond issuance sample and default information. The results show that corporate governance characteristics have more pronounced effect on default risk for unlisted firms. By analyzing detailed corporate governance measures, empirical results support three channels for corporate governance’s impact. That is, potential expropriation of large equity holder at the cost of debt holders, misalignment of managers with debt holders due to management equity holding, and lack of disclosure quality.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, default risk, public corporate bond

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Chao and HUANG, Can and Shi, Yining, Corporate Governance and Default Risk: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4156715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4156715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
S N Abdullah
Board structure and ownership in Malaysia: the case of distressed listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 582 - 594 Posted: 2006
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Khan
Governance-default risk relationship and the demand for intermediated and non-intermediated debt
Australasian Accounting Business & Finance Journal , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 42 Posted: 2012
F D Ali , G Stephen , J C Park , Y H Wu
Corporate Governance and Bankruptcy Risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 202 Posted: 2016
S Ali , B Liu , J Su
Does corporate governance quality affect default risk? The role of growth opportunities and stock liquidity
International Review of Economics and Finance , volume 58 , p. 422 - 448 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
632
RANK
545,411
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies