Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Firms’ Choice between Green and Conventional Bonds: Why is the Corporate Green Bond Market Still so ‘Green’?

37 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Marie Dutordoir

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Shuyu Li

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Joao Quariguasi Frota Neto

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: January 6, 2022

Abstract

Despite the substantial increase in green bond issuance over the past decade, corporate green bonds still only represent a small fraction of total bond issuance, and evidence on the drivers and costs of corporate green bond issuance is lacking. Drawing from the distinct features of green bonds and relevant theories, we develop four novel hypotheses on the determinants of firms’ choice between green and conventional bonds. We test these on a sample of green and conventional bonds issued by the US, Western European, and Chinese firms between 2012 and 2021, using rare events logistic regressions to account for the very small fraction of green relative to conventional bonds. Consistent with our hypotheses, firms with lower costs of disclosure, higher reputational gains from being seen as green, and a stronger focus on innovation are more likely to issue green instead of conventional bonds. Conversely, we only find weak evidence that borrowing constraints drive green bond issuance. We uncover cross-industry and cross-country differences in green bond issuance motives and find evidence of increased green bond issuance since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our findings, which survive several robustness tests, are relevant for corporate managers and bond market regulators.

Keywords: Sustainability, green bonds, corporate financing choice, disclosure costs, borrowing constraints, environmental performance, innovation

JEL Classification: G19, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Dutordoir, Marie and Li, Shuyu and Quariguasi Frota Neto, Joao, Determinants of Firms’ Choice between Green and Conventional Bonds: Why is the Corporate Green Bond Market Still so ‘Green’? (January 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4156431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4156431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
M Apaydin
The importance of corporate social responsibility strategic fit and times of economic hardship
British Journal of Management , volume 32 , p. 399 - 415 Posted: 2021
Apple's $4
7B in Green Bonds support innovative green technology -Apple (UK) Posted: 2022
M Arif
Diversifier or more? Hedge and safe haven properties of green bonds during COVID-19
Energy Policy , volume 168 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
203,475
2 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies