Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Board Characteristics Matter for Growth Firms? Evidence from China

Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 14(380). DOI:10.3390/jrfm14080380.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 9 Jul 2022

Qiuwei Li

Renmin University of China

Wei Zhou

Renmin University of China

Hui Zhou

University of Auckland

Jiaxuan Chen

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Previous research on the effect of board characteristics mostly examines established firms.
This raises the question of whether the findings from the board characteristics literature are applicable to rapidly growing enterprises, as their corporate governance landscape can be very different from that in large, mature companies. Our paper extends the corporate governance literature by investigating the performance implications of board characteristics in startups using a unique set of firms: 121 startups operating in the information technology industry listed on the Growth Enterprise Market (GEM) in China. Using a firm performance indicator constructed through the factor analysis method, we find significant correlations between firm performance and board size, age structure, board meeting frequency, and board ownership of shares. Our findings contribute to the corporate governance literature by shedding new light on the performance implications of board characteristics for startups operating in fast-paced industries. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm14080380

Keywords: corporate governance, board for startups, emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qiuwei and Zhou, Wei and Zhou, Hui and Chen, Jiaxuan, Do Board Characteristics Matter for Growth Firms? Evidence from China (2021). Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 14(380). DOI:10.3390/jrfm14080380., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157220
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
284
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies