Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Inspection Rights in Australia: Then And Now

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 652/2022

34 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2022 Last revised: 25 Jul 2022

Tim Bowley

Monash University

Jennifer G. Hill

Monash University - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: July 8, 2022

Abstract

Information asymmetry between shareholders and corporate managers can subvert contemporary calls for increased institutional investor oversight. In jurisdictions where controlling shareholders are common, information asymmetry can also arise between minority shareholders and controlling shareholders, impeding the monitoring of the latter by the former. Shareholder inspection rights provide an important corporate governance technique that can potentially address this problem and provide a basis for enhanced investor oversight and activism.

This paper examines the trajectory of shareholder inspection rights in Australia. It describes and evaluates the effectiveness of an important development in the mid-1980s, which saw a shift from the highly narrow and prescriptive U.K. common law inspection right to a statutory regime that conferred broad discretion on the courts to decide whether inspection is appropriate in the particular circumstances. The paper analyses the evolution of this shift and the extent to which the operation of shareholder rights today reflects the original goals of the statutory inspection right. The paper also explores the interesting issue of how modern securities laws designed to promote market integrity for all investors should interact with laws granting inspection rights to individual shareholders, and also the extent to which modern securities law may alter the contours of the statutory shareholder inspection right.

The paper argues that the Australian experience is valuable in providing international law makers and researchers with important insights into the efficacy of different models of regulating shareholder inspection rights and the interface of individual shareholder inspection rights with broad market-based disclosure rules. Shareholder inspection rights will inevitably become increasingly important in practice, given increasing shareholder activism and the growing focus of investors on ESG-related matters.

Keywords: corporate governance, shareholders, inspection rights, institutional investors, activism, takeovers, securities law, disclosure

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G34, G38, K20, K22, N20, N25, N27

Suggested Citation:

Bowley, Tim and Hill, Jennifer G., Shareholder Inspection Rights in Australia: Then And Now (July 8, 2022). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 652/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4157680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Thomas Cox
Shareholders of Australian companies have an absolute right of access to a company's share register. See Corporations Act ss , volume 169
Section 247A was enacted under Part 2F.3 of the Company Law Review Act 1998 (Cth)
A number of leading Australian decisions are cited in numerous first instance and appellate cases in Hong Kong. Heavily cited decisions include Barrack Mines Ltd v Grants Patch Mining Ltd Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
286,433
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies