Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Protects Me Also Makes Me Behave: The Role of Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance on Empire-Building Managers in China

52 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2022

Qingbin Meng

Renmin University of China

Ziya Zhong

Renmin University of China

Xinyu Li

Shandong University

Song Wang

Saint Xavier University

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the monitoring effect of Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance (D&O insurance) on firms’ acquisitions in China. We find that firms with managers covered by D&O insurance are less likely to undertake acquisitions and if they do, their acquisitions are associated with higher stock returns upon acquisition announcements and better operating performance post-acquisition. The deterrence of D&O insurance on acquisition is more pronounced when the insurance providers are more active and when managerial moral hazard is more likely to exist. Further findings suggest that D&O insurance diminishes the effect of CEO’s overconfidence and risk-seeking behaviors on their acquisition decisions. Overall, our study suggests that D&O insurance can play an effective monitoring role that deters empire-building acquisitions.

Keywords: Acquisitions, Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance, Empire-Building Agency Problem, Behavioral Bias, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Meng, Qingbin and Zhong, Ziya and Li, Xinyu and Wang, Song, What Protects Me Also Makes Me Behave: The Role of Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance on Empire-Building Managers in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4157597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in china
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
T Baker , S J Griffith , T Baker , S J ; Griffith , M A Bentley , K A Omer , T C Sharp , N Y
Predicting corporate governance risk: evidence from the directors' and officers' liability insurance market. The University of Chicago Law Review
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 74 , issue 2 , p. 780 - 817 Posted: 2007
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , P R Rau
What doesn't kill you will only make you more risk-loving: early-life disasters and CEO behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 167 - 206 Posted: 2017
S Bhagat , J A Brickley , J L Coles , R T Bliss , R J Rosen
Managerial indemnification and liability insurance: the effect on shareholder wealth
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 107 - 138 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
747,544
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies