Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and Compensation in China

28 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Marta Alonso

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Beatriz Simon

University of Navarra

Date Written: July 9, 2022

Abstract

We show that Chinese firms engaging in corrupt practices pay significantly higher salaries to their management team as well as to their directors, although important differences arise between the private and the state sector. Our evidence suggests that managers in private companies use corruption to add value to the company, making manager higher compensation justified. We find no evidence of excessive salaries among directors in private companies. By contrast, corruption in state companies does not add value to the firm, making corruption extractive. We find that both directors and managers of state firms that engage in corrupt practices display significantly higher salaries. We argue these salaries are extractive as these companies have worse performance.

Keywords: Corruption, Compensation, Corporate Finance, Board of directors, China

JEL Classification: G34, J33, O16, P26

Suggested Citation:

Alonso, Marta and Simon, Beatriz, Corruption and Compensation in China (July 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4158479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4158479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weischback
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
J Allen , R Li
Awakaning Governance: ACGA China Corporate Governance Report , volume 42 , p. 242 - 267 Posted: 2018
M Alonso , N Palma , B Simon
The Value of Political Connections:Evidence from China's Anti-Corruption Campaign Posted: 2021
Y Ang
China's Gilded Age: The Paradox of Economic Boom and Vast Corruption Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
702,914
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies