Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Behavior and Profitability of Family Firms

19 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2022 Last revised: 1 Sep 2025

Menachem (Meni) Abudy

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: July 12, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of family ownership on firms’ asymmetric cost behavior and its implications for profitability. We find that family firms exhibit anti-sticky cost behavior, that is, they record a greater reduction in costs upon a sales decline than the increase in costs upon a similar sales upswing. In contrast, non-family firms demonstrate the prevalent pattern of cost stickiness. We posit that the greater cost reduction in family firms during downturns enhances the resilience of their profitability. Consistent with this notion, we find that family firms outperform non-family firms in periods of business contraction. 

Keywords: family firms; profitability; cost behavior, cost stickiness

JEL Classification: D22, D24, G32, L42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Abudy, Menachem (Meni) and Shust, Efrat, Cost Behavior and Profitability of Family Firms (July 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4160644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Abudy , S Benninga , E Shust
The cost of equity for private firms
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 431 - 443 Posted: 2016
M Abudy , E Amir , E Shust
Are family firms less audit-risky? Analysing audit fees, hours and rates
Accounting and Business Research , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2024
M Abudy , R Rooz , E Shust
Inventory Holding Strategy in Family Firms: Just in Case or Just in Time? Working paper, Bar-Ilan University Posted: 2025
M D Amore , V Pelucco , F Quarato
Family ownership during the Covid-19 pandemic
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 135 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
287,617
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies