Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors and Earnings Management Associated with Controlling Shareholders' Promises: Evidence from the Split Share Structure Reform in China

Forthcoming, Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, Forthcoming; Free access provided by Elsevier (before September 6, 2022): https://authors.elsevier.com/a/1fR0B_fH-s9IfP

46 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Mark David Wilson

Australian National University

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Yue (Rio) Wu

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Archie Lau

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: July 12, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effectiveness of institutional investors in constraining aggressive earnings management induced by strong contractual incentives. To this end we focus on the consequences of earnings-related promises (covenants) negotiated between corporate controlling shareholders and minority shareholders during China’s split-share structure reform, wherein failure to achieve profit benchmarks had the potential to transfer significant wealth from controlling to minority shareholders. Our initial analysis provides evidence that profit-promised firm-years are, on average, associated with income-increasing earnings management, and that this association is stronger for: (i) firm-years in which the profit-promise was satisfied, and (ii) firm-years in which proxies for the level of unmanaged earnings suggest that earnings management was needed to satisfy the promise. However, such benchmark-beating behavior is weaker for firms with higher levels of institutional ownership. Further analysis documents that the exit threat of institutional shareholders can discipline earnings management associated with profit promises. We also show that the effect of institutional shareholders in reducing earnings management associated with profit promises is greater for domestic mutual funds and for privately controlled firms. Interestingly, our evidence suggests that institutional investors only play an effective monitoring role over earnings management when their incentives are strongly aligned with those of other minority owners. In other cases, our evidence suggests that these investors may exacerbate the level of earnings management.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Controlling Shareholder, Institutional Ownership, Split-Share Structure Reform, China

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41, P21, P31

Suggested Citation:

Wilson, Mark D. and Wang, Kun Tracy and wu, yue and Lau, Archie, Institutional Investors and Earnings Management Associated with Controlling Shareholders' Promises: Evidence from the Split Share Structure Reform in China (July 12, 2022). Forthcoming, Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, Forthcoming; Free access provided by Elsevier (before September 6, 2022): https://authors.elsevier.com/a/1fR0B_fH-s9IfP, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
B Baik , J K Kang , J M Kim , J Lee
The liability of foreignness in international equity investments: Evidence from the US stock market
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
635,835
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies