Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market for CEOs: Evidence from Private Equity

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4161173

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022

Paul A. Gompers

Harvard Business School - Finance Unit; Harvard University - Entrepreneurial Management Unit; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Steven N. Kaplan

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); University of Chicago - Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship

Vladimir Mukharlyamov

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

Most research on the CEO labor market has studied public company CEOs while largely ignoring the market for CEOs in private equity funded companies. We fill this gap by studying the market for CEOs among larger U.S. companies (enterprise value greater than $1 billion) purchased by private equity firms between 2010 and 2016. We find that 71% of those companies hired new CEOs under private equity ownership. Almost 75% of the new CEOs are external hires with 67% being complete outsiders. The most recent experience of 69% of the outside CEOs was at a public company with 32% at an S&P 500 company. Almost 50% of the external hires have some previous experience at an S&P 500 company. These results are strikingly different from studies that look at public companies, in particular, Cziraki and Jenter (2021) who find that 72% of new CEOs in S&P 500 companies are internal promotions and 80% are internal promotions, former executives or board members. The median buyout in our sample earned 2.5 times on its equity investment. Companies with external CEOs appointed at the time of the buyout did particularly well. Using the performance of the buyouts and survey evidence on buyout equity incentives, we estimate the compensation buyout CEOs can expect and find that the magnitude is higher than that for CEOs of similarly sized public companies and comparable to that of S&P 500 CEOs. Overall, our results suggest that the broader market for CEOs is quite active and that, at least for private equity funded portfolio companies, firm-specific human capital is relatively unimportant. In addition, the compensation results indicate that public company executives have viable outside options. Finally, the results for and inferences from publicly-owned companies do not necessarily generalize to all companies. We conclude by discussing possible reasons that the public company and private-equity portfolio company CEO results are so different.

Keywords: CEO turnover, CEO compensation, private equity, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G20, G30, G32, G34, J23, J31, M12, M51

Suggested Citation:

Gompers, Paul A. and Kaplan, Steven Neil and Mukharlyamov, Vladimir, The Market for CEOs: Evidence from Private Equity (April 2022). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4161173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4161173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4161173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Henrik Cronqvist , Rüdiger Fahlenbrach
CEO Contract Design: How Do Strong Principals It
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 659 - 674 Posted: 2013
Custódio , Miguel A Cláudia , Pedro Ferreira , Matos
Generalists versus specialists: Lifetime work experience and chief executive officer pay
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 471 - 492 Posted: 2013
Peter Cziraki , Dirk Jenter
The Market for CEOs Posted: 2020
Alex Edmans , Xavier Gabaix , Dirk Jenter
Executive Compensation: A Survey of Theory and Evidence
Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance , p. 383 - 539 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,728
RANK
46,317
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies