Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Unions and Real Earnings Management

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022

Kiyoung Chang

University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee - College of Business

Young Sang Kim

Northern Kentucky University - College of Business; Taejae University

Ying Li

University of Washington, Bothell - Business

Jong Chool Park

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 6, 2022

Abstract

Using firm-level union membership data for the period of 2002–2016, we show that firms with higher union membership are more likely to engage in real earnings management than accrual-based earnings management, with abnormal production as the dominant form of real earnings management. We further show the causal effect of union membership on real earnings management by exploiting two natural experiments-the staggered enactment of state-level right-to-work (RTW) laws and the shock to unemployment insurance benefits (UIB)-as exogenous shocks to union power. Further exploration shows that the positive association between union membership and real earnings management is more pronounced for unionized firms with (1) high managerial incentives to reduce employee hiring and retention costs and (2) operating inflexibility created by labor overinvestment. Our evidence is consistent with managerial incentives for upward earnings management to mitigate employees’ perceived job security and the cost of employee management in competitive labor markets.

Keywords: Labor unions, real earnings management, abnormal production

JEL Classification: J51, G30, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Kiyoung and Kim, Young Sang and Li, Ying and Park, Jong Chool, Labor Unions and Real Earnings Management (July 6, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4161056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
E Appelbaum , L W Hunter
Union participation in strategic decisions of corporations. NBER Emerging Labor Market Institutions for the 21 st Century Posted: 2003
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
J Atanassov , E H Kim
Labor and corporate governance: international evidence from restructuring decisions
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 341 - 374 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
580,030
7 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies