Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entrepreneurial orientation and firm performance in Italian firms

International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior & Research, 26(4), 629-646.DOI: 10.1108/IJEBR-07-2019-0457.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 13 Jul 2022

Jeremy Galbreath

Curtin University - Centre for Research in Applied Economics

Lorenzo Lucianetti

University of Chieti and Pescara

Benjamin Thomas

Curtin University

Daniel Tisch

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Purpose – Considering that context is important and relying on a contingency perspective, the purpose of the study is to analyze the relationship between an entrepreneurial orientation (EO) and firm performance in one of the world’s oldest economies: Italy. The contingency perspective relies on competitive strategy as a moderating variable.

Design/methodology/approach – Using a mix of primary and secondary data sources, relationships are explored in a sample of 229 Italian for-profit firms. Moderated regression analysis is used for the sample and additional tests are conducted by firm size groupings.

Findings – The analysis suggests that an EO is positively associated with firm performance in the sample firms. Further, competitive strategy acts as a moderating influence: a low-cost strategy negatively influences the relationship, while a differentiation strategy positively influences the relationship. The firm size groupings do not appear to affect the results.

Research limitations/implications – The study examines only for-profit firms in a single country, Italy; therefore, generalizability is limited. The results must be interpreted in light of these limitations.

Originality/value – This study contributes to the entrepreneurship literature by considering a relatively new international context in the EO–firm performance relationship. Further, a new contingency perspective is advanced by considering competitive strategy. In doing so, this study extends an understanding of the conditions under which an EO might be associated with firm performance.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/IJEBR-07-2019-0457

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial orientation, Competitive strategy, Firm performance, Moderation, Strategy

Suggested Citation:

Galbreath, Jeremy and Lucianetti, Lorenzo and Thomas, Benjamin and Tisch, Daniel, Entrepreneurial orientation and firm performance in Italian firms (2019). International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior & Research, 26(4), 629-646.DOI: 10.1108/IJEBR-07-2019-0457. , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4161272
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies