Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Earnings Management on Firms’ Market-Adjusted Return

Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 14(3), pp. 203-214, July-September 2022 DOI: 10.5897/JAT2022.0535

Posted: 2 Aug 2022

Qazi Ghulam Mustafa Qureshi

Universite Paris Est Creteil (UPEC)

Yves Mard

Clermont University, CRCGM

Francois Aubert

(IAE) Institut d'Administration des Entreprises

Date Written: June 16, 2022

Abstract

Earnings announcement affects respective firms’ share prices based on their performances. Financial markets react to the bottom figure of the financial statements, which the authors believe include earnings management components. Similarly, earnings surprise also affects the market share. Therefore, they believe that there is a need for empirical analysis to understand the effects of earnings management and earnings surprises on firms’ market performance. The authors use a shorter 3-day window to measure the market-adjusted returns in contrast to the existing literature because they believe that the markets are efficient and will be able to mitigate the shocks in the longer run. A shorter window excludes the likely effects of other events that could affect the returns. They use the discretionary accrual modified model and real earnings management to proxy for earnings management. Earnings management is the management’s discretionary choice to manipulate earnings to achieve the financial targets. Earnings surprise is the difference between firms’ reported earnings and the Wall Street estimates, which affects individual firms’ stock prices around the earnings announcement and in the long run. We apply multivariate-pooled OLS heteroscedasticity-consistent standard error regressions. The study results suggest that the magnitude of earnings management has a positive and significant relationship with firms’ market-adjusted return. Similarly, good news also shows a positive relationship, and a significant negative relationship exists with bad news. This indicates that the earnings announcement does indeed have significant effects on firms’ market-adjusted returns.

Keywords: Market adjusted returns, earnings management, analysts’ forecasts, earnings surprise, earnings announcement, accruals earnings management, real earnings management

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Qureshi, Qazi Ghulam Mustafa and Mard, Yves and Aubert, Francois, Effects of Earnings Management on Firms’ Market-Adjusted Return (June 16, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 14(3), pp. 203-214, July-September 2022 DOI: 10.5897/JAT2022.0535 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4161023
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies