Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Muddy the Waters to Conceal Information?Textual Analysis of Firms' Responses to Different Types of Investors

13 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2022

Lini Duan

Shenyang University of Chemical Technology

Lingyi Li

Shenyang University of Chemical Technology

Kyng-Hyu Park

Chungnam National University

Di Wu

Capital University of Economics and Business; Beijing Jiaotong University

Abstract

This paper investigates the differential responses by managers to institutional investors during site visits and to retail investors during online Q&As. We find that the gap in firm responses to different types of investors increases the potential for comment letters to be sent to firms and higher information asymmetry, consistent with the notion that this gap implies a lower quality of information disclosure. Additional tests show that managers are more likely to post different responses when investors' questions have a more negative orientation.

Keywords: Information manipulation, Institutional investors, Investor relations, Retail investors

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Lini and Li, Lingyi and Park, Kyng-Hyu and Wu, Di, Muddy the Waters to Conceal Information?Textual Analysis of Firms' Responses to Different Types of Investors. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
E Blankespoor
Firm communication and investor response: A framework and discussion integrating social media. Accounting, Organizations and Society 68-69 , p. 80 - 87 Posted: 2018
Q Cheng , F Du , X Wang , Y Wang
Seeing is believing: analysts' corporate site visits
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 1245 - 1286 Posted: 2016
E Farvaque , C Refait-Alexandre , D Saïdane
Corporate disclosure: a review of its (direct and indirect) benefits and costs
International Economics , volume 128 , p. 5 - 31 Posted: 2011
J R Graham , C R Harvey , S Rajgopal
The economic implications of corporate financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 3 - 73 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
380
RANK
856,579
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies