Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcement and disclosure

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 85

40 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2022

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: July 14, 2022

Abstract

Our model combines disclosure requirements and enforcement rules to analyze the impact of enforcement on firms’ reporting behavior. Starting from a voluntary disclosure model with stochastic information endowment, we add an asymmetric mandatory disclosure rule that requires firms with bad private information to disclose. Mandatory disclosure is subject to probabilistic enforcement, with expected fines increasing in a firm’s misconduct. In equilibrium, low-value firms disclose fearing enforcement, medium-value firms do not disclose (some legally others illegally), and high-value firms disclose voluntarily. More vigorous enforcement enlarges the set of compliant firms, increasing the non-disclosure price. In response, disclosing voluntarily becomes less beneficial. When the mandatory disclosure rule is endogenous, i.e., set according to the firms’ preferences, we identify a locally stable rule where no majority of firms prefers a marginal change of the current regulation. The preferred rule is unique and increases in enforcement intensity and in litigation strength.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, enforcement, mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: D70, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Simons, Dirk, Enforcement and disclosure (July 14, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
B Bennett , J C Bettis , R Gopalan , T Milbourn
Compensation goals and firm performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 307 - 330 Posted: 2017
D R Beresford
The balancing act in setting accounting standards. Accounting Horizons , volume 2 Posted: 1988
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel
Toward a positive theory of disclosure regulation: In search of institutional foundations
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 789 - 824 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
424,948
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies