Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Corporate ESG? Disentangling the Importance of Investors, Managers, and Firms

54 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Vicente J. Bermejo

ESADE Business School

Antonino Emanuele Rizzo

Nova School of Business and Economics

Mohammed Zakriya

IÉSEG School of Management; CNRS; Lille Economie Management (LEM) UMR 9221; University of Lille

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 14, 2022

Abstract

We study the relative importance of investor, manager, and firm heterogeneities on firms' Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) policies. We find that investor fixed effects explain most of the variation in ESG choices. The improvement in the model fit from adding investor effects is particularly strong for the environmental dimension. Significant associations between investor effects and both voting decisions on ESG proposals and the likelihood that firms are involved in environmental and social misconducts confirm that we capture economically important heterogeneities in investors' behavior. Additional analyses also show stronger empirical support for an underlying channel based on investor influence over ESG policies rather than investor selection of high ESG firms.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, Investor fixed effects, Manager fixed effects, Institutional investors

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, M14, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Bermejo, Vicente J. and Rizzo, Antonino Emanuele and Zakriya, Mohammed, What Drives Corporate ESG? Disentangling the Importance of Investors, Managers, and Firms (July 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
114,333
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies