Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance: Shareholders vs. Stakeholders - Divergence and Common Ground

4 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Vijay Raj

Dalhousie University - Faculty of Management; Government of Nova Scotia

Date Written: May 20, 2022

Abstract

This paper explores the topic of corporate governance and emphasizes the need to balance share- holder and stakeholder interest to ensure sustainability of a corporation. The paper is based on a case study of the electric car manufacturer Tesla. The paper also introduces an innovative reusable framework that can be used to balance various interests from a corporate governance perspective.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Ethical Leadership, Innovation, Sustainability, Start-ups

Suggested Citation:

Raj, Vijay, Corporate Governance: Shareholders vs. Stakeholders - Divergence and Common Ground (May 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
This is a robust example of Paquet's topology in action where Tesla has instituted efficient corporate governance in a world where power and information are increasingly distributed
References 1 Pfarrer, M Posted: 2010
Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(D) of the securities exchange act of Posted: 1934
I C Government Of Canada
Share structure and shareholders Posted: 2022-05-23
M Friedman , R D Friedman
Capitalism and freedom Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
134,500
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies