Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Performance: Evidence from Greek Firms

Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 37

33 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2022

Panayotis Kapopoulos

Chief Economist, Alpha Bank; University of Pireaus

Sophia Lazaretou

Bank of Greece - Economic Research Department

Date Written: April 1, 2006

Abstract

The Berle-Means thesis (1932) implies that diffuse ownership adversely affects firm performance. This paper tries to investigate whether there is strong evidence to support the notion that variations across firms in observed ownership structures result in systematic variations in observed firm performance. We test this hypothesis by assessing the impact of the structure of ownership on corporate performance, measured by profitability, using data for 175 Greek listed firms. Following Demsetz and Villalonga (2001) we model ownership structure, first, as an endogenous variable and, second, we consider two different measures of ownership structure reflecting different groups of shareholders with conflicting interests. Empirical findings suggest that a more concentrated ownership structure positively relates to higher firm profitability. We also find that higher firm profitability requires a less diffused ownership.

Keywords: Money demand, Ownership structure, Firm performance

JEL Classification: G32,G34

Suggested Citation:

Kapopoulos, Panayotis and Kapopoulos, Panayotis and Lazaretou, Sophia, Corporate Ownership Structure and Firm Performance: Evidence from Greek Firms (April 1, 2006). Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Tobin's Q
The numerator is the firm's market value of common stock plus the book value of its debt in 2000 (end-of-year)
Trading of Bonds and Stocks Posted: 2001
Percentage ownership is measured as the fraction of shares owned by a firm's management (top management, CEO, board members), each of whom owns at least 5% of outstanding shares. The data refer to 2000; voting rights measurement. Source: www.ase.gr. Debt: Long-term liabilities to total assets. Annual data on liabilities and assets for the year 2000
Balance Sheets. Firm size: total assets Posted: 2001
Balance Sheets, and Bank of Greece. CR4: top 4 firm concentration index computed as the sum of the market shares of 4 largest firms in the market. Market share is computed as the ratio of total assets of the ith firm to total assets of all firms in the market
Greek Financial Directory, ICAP Posted: 2000
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property
Brace and World Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
662,989
7 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies