Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Meetings With Management and Investor Uncertainty at Subsequent Earnings Announcements

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2022-071

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4163114

48 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Xinlei Li

University of California, Davis

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Hui Wang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: May 4, 2023

Abstract

We examine the interplay between the incidence of private meetings with management and investor activity around subsequent public disclosures. We focus on firms that issue stand-alone management guidance in conjunction with private meetings compared to a matched sample of firms that also issue stand-alone guidance but do not have such meetings. We find an incremental 10 percent reduction in investor uncertainty around the subsequent forecasted earnings announcements of firms with private meetings relative to firms that do not have meetings. This reduction is greater for firms with more soft information, consistent with our theorized mechanism regarding the importance of the soft information investors obtain during private meetings. We conclude that the soft information investors gather during private meetings helps them interpret subsequent forecasted earnings announcements, shedding light on the relationship between previously-collected private information and the interpretation of subsequent public disclosures.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure; Investor conferences; Earnings guidance; Investor uncertainty.

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xinlei and Schloetzer, Jason D. and Tseng, Ayung and Wang, Hui, Private Meetings With Management and Investor Uncertainty at Subsequent Earnings Announcements (May 4, 2023). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2022-071, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4163114, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4163114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4163114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does Earnings Guidance Affect Market Returns? The Nature and Information Content of Aggregate Earnings Guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How much new information is there in earnings?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,728
RANK
176,084
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies