Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of mergers and acquisitions on bank efficiency in Greece

Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 22, Article 1

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2022

Panayiotis P. Athanasoglou

Investments & Wealth Institute (IWI) USA; ATINER

Sophocles N. Brissimis

Bank of Greece

Date Written: January 1, 2004

Abstract

This paper studies the impact of recent mergers and acquisitions (M&As) on the cost and profit efficiency of banks in Greece. To this end, three methods have been applied: (i) analysis of developments in certain cost and profit indicators and their dispersion for bank groups according to their size; (ii) calculation of cost and profit inefficiency (relative to the best performer); and (iii) analysis of individual cases of M&As in terms of changes in bank costs and profitability relative to banks not involved in M&As. Additionally, the paper assesses the existence of economies of scale and the extent to which they are exploited through M&As. The empirical results indicate that M&As, in particular those involving small banks, had a positive effect on cost and profit efficiency and that scope exists for further improvement in efficiency. Also, M&As helped large banks to exploit economies of scale, which previously were found in small to medium-sized banks.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, bank cost and profit efficiency, economies of scale

JEL Classification: G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Athanasoglou, Panayiotis P. and Brissimis, Sophocles N., The effect of mergers and acquisitions on bank efficiency in Greece (January 1, 2004). Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 22, Article 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4163605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
P P Athanasoglou
The European banking system and the capital market: its role in the development of the European Union"), Bulletin of the Hellenic Bank Association , p. 53 - 60 Posted: 1998
E Voloudakis
Bank mergers and acquisitions: A first assessment
Epilogi (Trends: The Greek economy in 2002 Posted: 2002
In English Akhavein , J A , A N Berger , D Humphrey
The effects of megamergers on efficiency and prices: Evidence from a bank profit function
Review of Industrial Organization , volume 12 , p. 75 - 103 Posted: 1997
L Allen , A Rai
Operational efficiency in banking: An international comparison
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 18 , p. 665 - 672 Posted: 1996
Load more
6 Citations
Nkhangweleni Masindi , Paul Singh
A Panel Data Analysis into the Impact of Regulations and Supervision on the African Banking Profitability and Risk Profile
Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.2 (2022) · 16 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2022 · Downloads: 123
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Panayiotis P. Athanasoglou , Sophocles N. Brissimis , Matthaios Delis
Bank-Specific, Industry-Specific and Macroeconomic Determinants of Bank Profitability
Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 25 · 35 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 1,006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Panayiotis P. Athanasoglou , Ioannis Asimakopoulos , Evaggelia Georgiou
The Effect of Merger and Acquisition Announcement on Greek Bank Stock Returns
Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 24, Article 2 · 18 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 190
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Panayiotis P. Athanasoglou , Evaggelia Georgiou , Christos Staikouras
Assessing Output and Productivity Growth in the Banking Industry
Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 92 · 52 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 37
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
RANK
564,093
6 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies