Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reaching Across the Aisle, a Mutual Win

64 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Cosmin Cioanta

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: June 9, 2022

Abstract

The ability to work with multiple parties while resisting peer pressures from one's own political party, known as reaching across the aisle (RATA), has become less frequent as the U.S political realm is increasingly polarized. This paper looks at the relation between a politician's political voting characteristics and subsequent demand for being hired to the board of directors. Additional connections among the politician's hiring and the market's reaction, dynamics of lobbying and corporate governance, and firm's financial performance are explored. I find RATA voting increases the chance of being hired to the board, SP1500 companies with high RATA voting politicians outperform their peers, and Non-SP1500 firms benefit from high Polar voting politicians.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Portfolios, Board of Directors, Politics, Polarization

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G11, G38

Suggested Citation:

Cioanta, Cosmin, Reaching Across the Aisle, a Mutual Win (June 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4164658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4164658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
disclosure and governance within the financial services industry
Journal of Banking Finance , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 989 - 1006
J H Aldrich
Why parties?: The origin and transformation of political parties in America Posted: 1995
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance
The Review of financial studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Marianne Bertrand , Antoinette Schoar
Managing with Style: The Effect of Managers on Firm Policies
Quarterly Journal of Economic , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1207 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
765,896
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies