Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Credit Rating

56 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the association of a firm’s related party transactions (RPTs) with the firm’s credit ratings. Consistent with the agency theory view, we argue that RPTs, because of financial reporting risks, rent extraction, consumption of private benefits, and entrenchment, are associated with higher default risks and therefore lower credit ratings. RPTs, we find, are associated with lower credit ratings. The negative relationship between RPTs and credit rating is weakened for firms that exhibit strong corporate governance. Additional analyses suggest that credit rating agencies (CRAs) evaluate RPTs’ credit risk as higher in firms with poor information environments and greater agency risks. Combined, we provide additional evidence on the risky perception of RPTs. Our evidence implies that CRAs view a firm’s RPTs as indicative of credit risk and, therefore, as important determinants of the firm’s credit ratings.

Keywords: Related party transactions, Credit ratings, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G24, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Avishek and Kohlbeck, Mark J., Related Party Transactions and Credit Rating (July 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4164179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4164179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
318,538
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies