Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate ESG Create Value? New Evidence from M&As in China

47 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2022

Zhigang Zheng

Renmin University of China

Jiarong Li

Durham University

Xingzi Ren

Durham University Business School

Jie (Michael) Guo

University of Durham

Abstract

Using a large sample of Chinese companies' domestic M&A, this study provides new evidence on the financial payback of corporate ESG and its dynamics. We find that acquirers’ ESG rating is positively correlated to post-M&A performance and deal completion likelihood. Additionally, we find the relationship between acquirer’s ESG dynamic and post-M&A performance is contingent on the firm's previous ESG standards. Overall, these findings are in line with the instrumental stakeholders’ view that high ESG performance could earn support from stakeholders for post-M&A synergy creation and emphasize the asymmetric marginal outcome of firms’ ESG efforts as a result of diminishing marginal utility of stakeholders.

Keywords: ESG, Merger and Acquisition, Firm Value, Stakeholder Utility

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Zhigang and Li, Jiarong and Ren, Xingzi and Guo, Jie (Michael), Does Corporate ESG Create Value? New Evidence from M&As in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4165649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4165649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
G Adolph , I Buchanan , J Hornery , B Jackson , J Jones , T Kihlstedt , G Neilson , H Quarls
Merger integration: Delivering on the promise Posted: 2001
K R Ahern , J F Weston
M&As: The good, the bad, and the ugly
Journal of Applied Finance , volume 17 , p. 5 - 20 Posted: 2007
H Anderson , V Havila , F Nilsson
A stakeholder approach to mergers and acquisitions
Mergers and Acquisitions. Routledge , p. 11 - 24 Posted: 2012
M Arouri , M Gomes , K Pukthuanthong
Corporate social responsibility and M&A uncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 176 - 198 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
174,026
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies