Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Pledge and Corporate Debt Financing

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2022

Chu-Bin Lin

Southwest Jiaotong University

Yan-Lin Yu

Southwest Jiaotong University

Meng-Na Huang

Southwest Jiaotong University

Yi-Wen Chen

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

This study details an investigation of the relationship between controlling shareholders’ share pledge and (a) firms’ financial leverage and (b) the cost of debt. Consistent with the literature suggesting that firms with controlling shareholders pledging their shares are associated with greater information asymmetry, we find that controlling shareholders’ pledging activity is positively related to a firm’s total debt ratio and cost of debt. Further analyses show that better corporate governance and more firm transparency can alleviate these agency costs. The results are robust to a number of alternative measures of the share pledging, and after control of endogeneity issues using an instrumental variable and propensity score matching approach. Overall, this study provides support for the pecking order theory and proposes that controlling shareholders’ share pledge is an additional determinant of a firm’s capital structure and cost of capital.

Keywords: Corporate governance, cost of debt, debt ratio, information asymmetry, share pledge

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Chu-Bin and Yu, Yan-Lin and Huang, Meng-Na and Chen, Yi-Wen, Share Pledge and Corporate Debt Financing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4165650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4165650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
K H Al-Yahyaee , T M Pham , T S Walter
The information content of cash dividend announcements in a unique environment
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , p. 606 - 612 Posted: 2011
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider share-pledging and equity risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 58 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
726
RANK
580,030
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies