Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Dispersion and Corporate Liquidity

51 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Douglas J. Fairhurst

Washington State University

Date Written: September 2022

Abstract

Cash holdings are significantly lower for firms with dispersed debt maturity, and this finding is robust to entropy balancing and allowing for the simultaneous selection of dispersion and cash holdings. The relation is strongest for firms with shorter debt maturity and firms that rely on precautionary cash, such as financially constrained firms and firms with volatile cash flows. Markets place a lower value on the cash of firms with high or increasing dispersion, and these firms retain less cash. Collectively, the evidence implies that firms can hedge rollover risk with dispersed debt maturity as an alternative to holding costly cash.

Keywords: Debt maturity dispersion, cash holdings, corporate liquidity, rollover risk

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Fairhurst, Douglas J., Debt Dispersion and Corporate Liquidity (September 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4166248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4166248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Acharya , V Viral , Douglas Gale , Tanju Yorulmazer
Rollover risk and market freezes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 , p. 1177 - 1209
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello , Igor Cunha , Michael S Weisbach
Corporate liquidity management: A conceptual framework and survey , volume 6 , p. 135 - 162 Posted: 2014
Oya Altinkilic , Robert S Hansen
Are there economies of scale in underwriting fees? Evidence of rising external financing costs
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 191 - 218 Posted: 2000
Thomas W Bates , Ching-Hung Chang , Jianxin Daniel , Chi
Why has the value of cash increased over time?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 53 , p. 749 - 787 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
834
RANK
371,780
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies