Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Use of Tone in Disclosures

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 88, 2022

43 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 21 Jul 2022

Lisa Knacker

Goethe University Frankfurt

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

The tone in the narrative part of annual reports is associated with reactions by capital markets. Managers can thus use the tone strategically to influence how information is perceived by the market and to maximize the firm value. We study the strategic use of tone in narrative disclosures and analyze how the tone choice is influenced by the company's business strategy. The manager discloses reports that consist of backward-looking accounting information and a narrative part based on future expectations which may be biased by the tone. By comparing previous reports with current information, the market learns whether the manager's tone has been biased. Biased reports have an impact on the market's future evaluation of the firm. We find that the manager's tone choice depends on the soft information the manager receives, i.e., whether this information is good or bad. To determine whether the soft information is good or bad, the manager considers expected future soft information, compensation, the strength of internal controls, and the market's adjustment if the manager's tone was biased. In addition, we show that the business strategy has an influence on the tone choice.

Keywords: narrative disclosure, disclosure tone, financial reporting

JEL Classification: D82, G14

Suggested Citation:

Knacker, Lisa and Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna, Strategic Use of Tone in Disclosures (July 15, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 88, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4166882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4166882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
C S Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Ã Arslan-Ayaydin , K Boudt , J Thewissen
Managers set the tone: Equity incentives and the tone of earnings press releases
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 72 , p. S132 - S147 Posted: 2016
K A Bentley , T C Omer , N Y Sharp
Business Strategy, Financial Reporting Irregularities, and Audit Effort , volume 30 , p. 780 - 817 Posted: 2013
K A Bentley-Goode , N J Newton , A M Thompson
Business Strategy, Internal Control over Financial Reporting, and Audit Reporting Quality , volume 36 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
333,065
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies