Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an Amended Arm’s Length Principle – Tackling Complexity and Implementing Destination Rules in Transfer Pricing

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 89

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-10

34 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 6 Dec 2022

Stefan Greil

German Federal Ministry of Finance

Michael Overesch

Universität zu Köln

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Ulrich Schreiber

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: November 30, 2022

Abstract

The arm’s length principle (ALP) is the cornerstone of multinational enterprises’ (MNEs) profit taxation. However, despite extensive improvements by the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, two aspects of the ALP has been widely criticized. First, market jurisdictions where multinational enterprises serve their customers have little access to the MNEs’ profits because there is often no place of supply for tax purposes or, if there is, the profits reported there are very low. This reduces the perceived fairness of profit allocations and the acceptance of rules by taxpayers and jurisdictions. Second, the rules governing the ALP have continuously become more complex and difficult to implement. Whereas the first point of criticism will presumably be addressed by Pillar One, the second has not yet been dealt with and is even more exacerbated by the BEPS Project. The authors suggest amending the ALP by attempting to effectively focus on its complexity and implementing destination rules. The former can be achieved with a reduction of functional analyses and information requirements as well as a standardization of margins reduces complexity while the latter target the allocation of MNEs’ profits to market jurisdictions which they have in common with Pillar One. However, in contrast to Pillar One that rests on a multilateral agreement, the amended ALP is embedded in a bilateral context (usually a double tax agreement and underlying transfer pricing guidelines). Keeping the bilateral character significantly reduces conflicts of interest between jurisdictions, simplifies tax enforcement, and offers important benefits for dispute resolution. This is assumed to increase the perceived fairness of profit allocations and acceptance of the ALP. A stylized example is used to demonstrate how the amended ALP can be applied.

Keywords: Arm's Length Principle, Transfer Pricing, International Taxation, OECD BEPS Project

Suggested Citation:

Greil, Stefan and Overesch, Michael and Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna and Schreiber, Ulrich and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Towards an Amended Arm’s Length Principle – Tackling Complexity and Implementing Destination Rules in Transfer Pricing (November 30, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 89, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4166972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4166972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
See M Nessa , C M Schwab , B Stomberg , E M Towery
How do IRS Resources Affect the Corporate Audit Process?
95 The Accounting Review , volume 2 , p. 311 - 338 Posted: 2020
M Diller , J Lorenz , G Schneider , C Sureth-Sloane
Is consistency the panacea? Inconsistent or consistent tax transfer prices with strategic taxpayer and tax authority behavior
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No , volume 57 Posted: 2021
M Holt , M L Nessa , E Towery , ; J Seidman , R Sinha , B Stomberg
For survey evidence on the increasing number and harshness of tax disputes see KPMG, The global tax disputes environment
pdf and EY Tax Risk and Controversy Survey Posted: 2019
See K Edmiston , S Mudd , N Valev
Tax Structures and FDI: The Deterrent Effects of Complexity and Uncertainty
Fiscal Studies , volume 24 , p. 341 - 359 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
146,388
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies