Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credible disclosure or mere puffery? Empirical evidence on the voluntary use of sustainability disclosure standards

51 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 Jan 2025

Khrystyna Bochkay

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Seungju Choi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Jeffrey Hales

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we examine companies’ voluntary adoption of sustainability disclosure standards developed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Specifically, we study which company characteristics help explain the use of SASB standards and examine whether voluntary use is associated with sustainability-related activities and market-based outcomes. We find that peer behavior, sustainability-focused institutional ownership, company size and performance, and sustainability-related governance factors are key determinants associated with SASB adoption. Moreover, SASB adoption appears to be a highly persistent and progressively comprehensive disclosure choice that is significantly associated with stronger sustainability performance, such as lower greenhouse gas emissions and lower pollution levels, particularly when the SASB standards identify those issues as financially material topics. Finally, SASB adoption is associated with greater price informativeness, suggesting that investors get additional firm-specific information from companies' adoption of the standards.

Keywords: sustainability reporting standards; Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB); environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues; voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Bochkay, Khrystyna and Choi, Seungju and Hales, Jeffrey, Credible disclosure or mere puffery? Empirical evidence on the voluntary use of sustainability disclosure standards (July 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4167391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
B K Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor competition over information and the pricing of information asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2012
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1661 - 1709 Posted: 2024
F Barigozzi , P Tedeschi
Credit markets with ethical banks and motivated borrowers
Review of Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 1281 - 1313 Posted: 2015
J Barton , G Waymire
Investor protection under unregulated financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 38 , p. 65 - 116 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,394
RANK
30,502
5 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies