Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Financial Decision-Making Affected by Prior Information? A Behavioral Approach

26 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 17 May 2024

Nora Muñoz-Izquierdo

- Colegio Universitario de Estudios Financieros (CUNEF)

María-del-Mar Camacho-Miñano

Complutense University of Madrid

David Pascual-Ezama

Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

The role of financial experts is to provide their professional judgments with an opinion included in the financial reports after reviewing an entity’s financial information, following a specific audit process. We investigate whether self-inferred confirmation bias occurs among auditors during the audit process and decision-making (experiment 1) and whether experience mitigates this effect (experiment 2). To test self-inferred confirmation bias, we study whether negative, moderately negative, and positive previous financial opinions or the absence of them might influence the issuance of the subsequent decision-making. Results confirm the existence of self-inferred confirmation bias, showing that positive and negative prior opinions persuade auditors when suggesting the next one. Our evidence also suggests that professional experience mitigates this influence on auditors’ assessments.

Keywords: behavioral auditing, audit opinion, unqualified opinions, qualifications, going concern, professional experience.

Suggested Citation:

Muñoz-Izquierdo, Nora and Camacho-Miñano, María-del-Mar and Pascual-Ezama, David, Is Financial Decision-Making Affected by Prior Information? A Behavioral Approach (May 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E I Altman
Accounting implications of failure prediction models
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 2 , p. 4 - 19 Posted: 1982
B H Anderson , M Maletta
Auditor attendance to negative and positive information: The effect of experience-related differences
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 6 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1994
E M Bamber , R J Ramsay , R M Tubbs
An examination of the descriptive validity of the belief-adjustment model and alternative attitudes to evidence in auditing
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 249 - 268 Posted: 1997
T D Bauer
The effects of client identity strength and professional identity salience on auditor judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 114 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
RANK
467,197
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies