Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Encouraging Long-Term Shareholders the Effects of Loyalty Shares with Double Voting Rights

Forthcoming, Finance

60 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 15 Jul 2023

Francois Belot

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University

Edith Ginglinger

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Laura T. Starks

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Abstract

Loyalty shares, which are mechanisms designed to encourage long-term share ownership through disproportional voting rights, face questions regarding their benefits and costs. We examine these questions through a natural experiment—the passage of the Florange Act in France—that required firms to adopt loyalty shares unless shareholders voted to opt out. We find differences in market reactions: negative for firms opting out and positive for those newly adopting the shares. Providing comparative evidence across these firms and across the two-thirds of French firms that previously issued loyalty shares, we show how the benefits and costs of loyalty shares vary across firms.

Keywords: Loyalty shares, one share-one vote, dual-class stock, long-term shareholders, blockholders, multiple voting rights, Corporate governance, monitoring, R&D expenses

Suggested Citation:

Belot, Francois and Ginglinger, Edith and Starks, Laura T., Encouraging Long-Term Shareholders the Effects of Loyalty Shares with Double Voting Rights. Forthcoming, Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
One share-one vote: The empirical evidence
Review of Finance , volume 12 , p. 51 - 91 Posted: 2008
R Albuquerque , E Schroth
Quantifying private benefits of control from a structural model of block trades
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , p. 33 - 55 Posted: 2010
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
J S Ang , W L Megginson
Restricted voting shares, ownership structure, and the market value of dual-class firms
Journal of Financial Research , volume 12 , p. 301 - 318 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,626
RANK
240,099
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies