Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizon to Sustainability: CEO Incentive Duration and Corporate Social Responsibility

66 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022

Xudong Fu

University of Louisville

Rui Shen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Tian Tang

University of Louisville

Xinyan Yan

University of South Florida - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper finds that CEO incentive horizons, proxied by their executives’ pay duration, are positively associated with their firms’ engagement in corporate social responsibility (CSR), especially when those firms face high risk of reputation loss, need stakeholder support, or maintain effective corporate governance practices. CSR, when practiced by CEOs with long-horizon incentives, benefits both stakeholders and shareholders in the long run. Further tests suggest that endogenous factors are unlikely to drive our conclusions or inferences. Taken together, our evidence suggests that the instrumental perspective on CSR prevails and long incentive horizons help firms align their stakeholders’ interests with shareholder value.

Keywords: Managerial Myopia, CEO Pay Duration, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Fu, Xudong and Shen, Rui and Tang, Tian and Yan, Xinyan, Horizon to Sustainability: CEO Incentive Duration and Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Agrawal , D Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich
Hacking corporate reputations Posted: 2018
H Amiraslani , K V Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
A matter of Trust? The bond market benefits of corporate social capital during the financial crisis Posted: 2017
S Balsam , A Reitenga , J Yin
Option acceleration in response to FAS 123(R) , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
359,199
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies