Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inter-Firm Executive Connections in Supply Chains and Suppliers’ Sales Forecast Accuracy

Posted: 28 Jul 2022

Xiaozhe Gu

University of Southern Indiana

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Nandu J. Nagarajan

University of Texas at Arlington

Xiaoxiao Yu

Monash University

Date Written: July 21, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we examine how inter-firm executive social connections between suppliers and major customers help promote communication that facilitates supplier accuracy in sales forecasts. We first document that suppliers provide more accurate revenue forecasts when their executives are socially connected to their major customers using a firm fixed-effects model. We also show that customer good news shared through social ties plays a stronger role in improving suppliers’ forecast accuracy than bad news, and that information shared through these ties is likely to be demand-related because social connections to the major customer’s marketing executives positively affect supplier’s sales forecast accuracy. The positive effect on the supplier revenue forecast accuracy is reduced when the major customer is more transparent, and when the supplier has greater bargaining power. We further document that information acquired by the suppliers and customers through social ties to the other party primarily benefit the acquirer but not the supply chain partner. The findings provide evidence that information flows in the supply chain need not benefit both supply chain partners especially when the customer has high bargaining power. Taken together, our findings contribute to the literature in three areas: (1) the relationship between inter-firm executive social ties and capital market voluntary disclosures (2) how communication through private channels in supply chains improves supplier sales forecast accuracy and (3) how suppliers shape their executive hiring strategies to benefit from information flows through inter-firm executive social ties.

Keywords: Supplier strategy, Social connection, supply chain, revenue forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, D82, D91

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Xiaozhe and Ji, Yuan and Nagarajan, Nandu J. and Yu, Xiaoxiao, Inter-Firm Executive Connections in Supply Chains and Suppliers’ Sales Forecast Accuracy (July 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168989
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
532
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies