Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Disclosure Around Confidentially-Marketed Public Offerings

69 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 31 Oct 2024

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Yonca Ertimur

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the regulatory tradeoff between facilitating capital formation and protecting investors, in the context of regulations designed to simplify the equity issuance process. A key outcome of regulatory efforts to streamline equity issuances is that most follow-on offerings by small- and mid-sized firms are now conducted using confidentially-marketed public offerings (CMPOs). CMPOs are accelerated offerings that pair confidential pre-offering marketing targeted to select institutional investors with a public offering period that typically spans less than one day. In contrast to evidence of spikes in pre-offering disclosure and improvements in the information environment surrounding traditional seasoned equity offerings (SEOs), we find CMPO issuers provide relatively limited pre-offering disclosures. Further, CMPO issuers with more pre-offering voluntary 8-K filings or requests for confidential treatment of disclosures appear to time the issuance to follow the release of good news, leading to worse post-offering performance. We conclude that while CMPOs are an attractive offering format that facilitates capital formation for small issuers, the accelerated marketing window for these offerings makes it difficult for investors to use pre-offering information to unravel market timing by issuers.

Keywords: equity offering, confidential marketing, disclosure, redactions, equity returns

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R. and Ertimur, Yonca and Schonberger, Bryce, Public Disclosure Around Confidentially-Marketed Public Offerings (October 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4168151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,790
RANK
236,690
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies