Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Capital Market Frictions, Corporate Governance, and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the TED Spread

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 52, 2023

19 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023

Karen Aparicio

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) - School of Business and Technology Management

Ryoonhee Kim

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Abstract

This study investigates whether corporate tax avoidance can benefit shareholders when external capital market frictions are high. Using the TED spread as an exogenous shock to firm financial constraint, the study documents that firms tend to reduce their effective tax rates more aggressively when external financing is very costly. This negative relation is stronger in industries more sensitive to TED. Furthermore, we find that the positive effect of TED on tax avoidance is more pronounced within firms with good corporate governance. Our final analyses suggest that the tax-savings during the time of high external market frictions increase firm value.

Keywords: External capital market frictions, financial constraint, corporate governance, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Aparicio, Karen and Kim, Ryoonhee, External Capital Market Frictions, Corporate Governance, and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the TED Spread. Finance Research Letters, Vol. 52, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4169872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
O Bayar , F Huseynov , S Sardarli
Corporate Governance, Tax Avoidance, and Financial Constraints , volume 47 , p. 651 - 677 Posted: 2018
T Beck , C Lin , Y Ma
Why Do Firms Evade Taxes? The Role of Information sharing and financial sector outreach
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 763 - 817 Posted: 2014
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Cheng Cai
Customer–Supplier Digital Transformation and Corporate Tax Avoidance
FRL-D-23-02580 · 13 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 20
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
RANK
388,737
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies