Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Disclosure Practices of Firms Affected by a Natural Disaster: The Case of Hurricanes

64 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2022 Last revised: 1 Aug 2022

Ventsislav Stamenov

Troy University

Date Written: July 22, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the disclosure practices of firms affected by hurricanes. I document that when a hurricane hits, there is an increase in investor uncertainty. During the hurricane period (approximately ten days), there is an increase in abnormal volume, stock volatility, spread, and illiquidity for firms that later report that they experienced hurricane damage. I find that firms with little to no impact from the hurricane disclose this information immediately after the hurricane. In contrast, firms impacted by the hurricane delay reporting the damage until the next earnings announcement. Furthermore, firms with “good news” that the hurricane had little damage to operations disclose this news in the headlines of the earnings release (high salience) while firms that disclose a negative impact are more likely to bury the news in the body of the earnings press release (low salience). I also find that hiding the news in the body of the text has attenuating effect (weaker stock market reaction) on those firms that disclose qualitative and not quantitative hurricane damage. These results are interesting for both US and international audiences because managers in all countries that experience natural disasters have to decide how to make disclosures about these news. The results also suggest that management’s strategic disclosure practices can be successful in reducing stock price volatility.

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure, natural disasters

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Stamenov, Ventsislav, Understanding the Disclosure Practices of Firms Affected by a Natural Disaster: The Case of Hurricanes (July 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4169391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4169391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
V V Acharya
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
H S Asay
Firm performance, reporting goals, and language choices in narrative disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 380 - 398 Posted: 2018
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
J.-N Barrot , J Sauvagnat
Input specificity and the propagation of idiosyncratic shocks in production networks
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 3 , p. 1543 - 1592 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
918
RANK
411,549
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies