Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership and the (Non-)Transparency of Institutional Shareholdings: An EU-US Comparison

SAFE Working Paper No. 354

Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting (Forthcoming)

47 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 17 Sep 2023

Sebastian Steuer

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Date Written: July 25, 2022

Abstract

The available evidence suggests that common ownership – the phenomenon that publicly traded stock is increasingly held by the same diversified investors, especially index fund managers – is much more pervasive in the US than in Europe. However, the ownership data situation in these jurisdictions is vastly different. In the US, institutional investors have to disclose periodically all their equity holdings on Form 13F, while no such disclosure exists in most other jurisdictions, including the EU and its Member States. The question, therefore, arises whether observed differences reflect actual differences or simple measurement error. In this paper, I develop a framework to quantify the extent to which US ownership statistics hinge on 13F filings. While 13F data greatly improve US coverage of institutional ownership in general, I show that the relevance of this extra coverage varies across different measures of common ownership. Most notably, firm-pairwise profit weights are hardly affected and tend to even decrease at the margin. Qualitatively, the observation that there is much more common ownership in the US than in Europe holds even if ownership information exclusively available via 13F filings is disregarded.

Keywords: common ownership, profit weights, ownership disclosure, 13F filings, index funds, passive investors, institutional investors, Big Three

JEL Classification: G23, G34, G38, K22, L10, L41

Suggested Citation:

Steuer, Sebastian, Common Ownership and the (Non-)Transparency of Institutional Shareholdings: An EU-US Comparison (July 25, 2022). SAFE Working Paper No. 354, Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4171508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4171508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Rosati Nicoletta
EUR 30312 EN (documenting common ownership patterns among listed firms active in the EU
Common Shareholding in Europe Posted: 2020
Competition 2018") , volume XXII Posted: 2022-06
Simona Frazzani
Barriers to Competition through Common Ownership by Institutional Investors, Study requested by the European Parliament's ECON Committee Posted: 2020
Alexandra J Gibbon , Jan Philip Schain
Rising Markups, Common Ownership, and Technological Capacities
DICE Discussion Paper No , volume 340 Posted: 2020
Load more
2 Citations
Gaia Balp , Giovanni Strampelli
Institutional Investor ESG Engagement: The European Experience
European Business Organization Law Review , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 869 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Christian Mücke
Bank Dividend Restrictions and Banks’ Institutional Investors
SAFE Working Paper No. 392 · 69 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 27 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,139
RANK
231,609
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies