Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spreading the Style: Firm Leaders’ Early Life Experiences and Employees’ Behavior and Performance

53 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022 Last revised: 8 Jun 2023

Nan Jia

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Yongxiang Wang

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Rongrong Xie

Central University of Finance and Economics

Nianhang Xu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2023

Abstract

The personal traits of firm leaders, shaped by early life experiences, influence their preferences over work activities. Such preferences, in turn, can affect employee behavior and performance at work. In the context of Chinese securities companies, we show that chairpersons’ adolescent experience as “sent-down youths” (SDYs) during the Cultural Revolution, which contributes to a higher willingness to engage in fact finding and reality checking, increases site visits to listed firms and accuracy of earnings forecasts by securities analysts under the chairperson’s leadership. Thus, the “style” of a firm leader spreads within an organization.

Keywords: Sent-down youths, employee behavior, securities analyst, forecast error, site visits

JEL Classification: M12, M14, J24, J63

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Nan and Wang, Yongxiang and Xie, Rongrong and Xu, Nianhang, Spreading the Style: Firm Leaders’ Early Life Experiences and Employees’ Behavior and Performance (June 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4172536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4172536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
I Babenko , V Fedaseyeu , S Zhang
Do CEOs affect employees' political choices?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1781 - 1817 Posted: 2020
B M Bass
Leadership and performance beyond expectations Posted: 1985
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Intrinsic and extrinsic motivation
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 520 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
167,146
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies