Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Estimation Intensity, Auditor Estimation Expertise, and Managerial Bias

Accounting Horizons (Forthcoming)

Posted: 29 Jul 2022

Jeff P. Boone

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine the relation between the accounting estimation intensity (AEI) ingrained in a company’s financial reports and the company’s propensity to meet or beat analyst earnings forecasts, and whether this relation is attenuated by the auditor’s estimation expertise at the city-office or national level. Although we find a positive relation between AEI and the propensity to meet analyst forecasts, we find little evidence to suggest that the relation is weakened by auditor estimation expertise. Along the same lines, we find little evidence to suggest that the positive relation between AEI and audit fees is affected by auditor estimation expertise. Our findings are of potential interest to regulators concerned about insufficient auditor skepticism in the audit of accounting estimates, investors interested in better understanding managerial accounting judgments, and academics investigating audit quality.

Keywords: Accounting estimation intensity; auditor estimation expertise; managerial bias in estimates.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Boone, Jeff P. and Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K., Accounting Estimation Intensity, Auditor Estimation Expertise, and Managerial Bias (July 1, 2022). Accounting Horizons (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4172372
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies