Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debtholder Stewardship

TILEC Discussion Paper No. DP2022-014, 2022

54 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022

Suren Gomtsian

London School of Economics - Law School; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Date Written: July 26, 2022

Abstract

Debtholder stewardship refers to the involvement of corporate creditors in a firm’s governance framework with the aim of improving corporate decision-making. This article develops the theory of debtholder stewardship by identifying the mechanisms of debtholder influence, assessing their effectiveness in modern capital markets, and outlining the implications of this analysis for investor stewardship and regulatory efforts to support it. The impetus of this study is the expansion of the UK Stewardship Code across a broader range of asset classes, stewardship activities, and topics. The code has moved away from the traditional focus on shareholders by adding investors in other assets to the list of the stewards of corporate activities. Also, the revised concept of stewardship covers broader topics, including environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. But our understanding of debtholder stewardship, especially on sustainability matters, is inadequate. This article explains whether corporate creditors, both public and private, can promote responsible business practices through the stewardship of borrowers.

Keywords: corporate governance, investor stewardship, debtholders, banks, institutional investors, ESG stewardship

JEL Classification: G23, G28, G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Gomtsian, Suren, Debtholder Stewardship (July 26, 2022). TILEC Discussion Paper No. DP2022-014, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4173111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4173111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
G G Triantis , R J Daniels
The Role of Debt in Interactive Corporate Governance Posted: 1995
California L Rev , volume 1073 Posted: 1083
F Tung
Leverage in the Board Room: The Unsung Influence of Private Lenders in Corporate Governance' (2009) 57 UCLA L Rev 115, 121; C. K. Whitehead, 'The Evolution of Debt: Covenants, the Credit Market, and Corporate Governance' (2009) 34 J Corporation L 641
D Dharmapala , V S Khanna
showing the limits of institutional equity investors in controlling externalities in countries with concentrated ownership structures and in firms with dominant controlling shareholders
Controlling Externalities: Ownership Structure and Cross-Firm Externalities , p. 13 - 15 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
RANK
373,551
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies