Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Impact of Private Information before Corporate Announcements: Evidence from Turkey

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022

Serif Aziz Simsir

Sabanci University

Koray D. Simsek

Rollins College - Crummer Graduate School of Business

Date Written: July 25, 2022

Abstract

Before their announcements are publicized on the regulatory agency’s Public Disclosure Platform (PDP) website, Turkish public firms privately upload their disclosures to the PDP servers with electronic signatures. Using the electronic signature timestamps of the announcements made between 2009 and 2017, we find significant abnormal trading activity in announcer firm stocks immediately after the appearance of these private uploads on the PDP servers. Abnormal volume after privately signed uploads is most significant when the subsequent market reaction to the announcements is positive. These findings withstand various robustness tests and are strongest for firms with weak governance practices.

Keywords: Insider trading; Information leakage; Public announcements; Event study; Disclosure; Trading volume.

JEL Classification: G14; G18; M40

Suggested Citation:

Simsir, Serif Aziz and Simsek, Koray D., The Market Impact of Private Information before Corporate Announcements: Evidence from Turkey (July 25, 2022). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4173092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies