Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
War, Migration, and Innovation: The Prolonged Impact of Universities’ Forced Relocation

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 92

53 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Weixing Cai

Guangdong University Of Finance and Economics

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: July 26, 2022

Abstract

We examine the long-term impact of the temporary relocation of higher education institutions during the Second Sino-Japanese War on corporate innovation and educational attainment in the destination area. We use historical data on the location of universities in 1930s China to examine whether a temporary influx of highly educated individuals into an area affects innovation and human capital accumulation in the long term. We show that the current economic outcomes of counties to which universities relocated are better than those of counties that did not host any relocated universities, even were no significant historical differences in the counties in the period before the outbreak of the war. In addition, we find evidence that firms in counties with relocated universities presently have higher patenting activity than firms in nearby counties that did not temporarily host a university. Further analyses reveal improved educational achievement and/or stronger preferences for education as a channel for the observed improved innovation outcomes.

Keywords: Second Sino-Japanese War, higher education, innovation, human capital

JEL Classification: N95, O15, O32, R11, I23

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Weixing and van Lent, Laurence and Zeng, Cheng, War, Migration, and Innovation: The Prolonged Impact of Universities’ Forced Relocation (July 26, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 92, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4173157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4173157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,507
RANK
325,744
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies