Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Auditor Regulation on Corporate Tax Planning Effectiveness

40 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022 Last revised: 26 Sep 2025

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 25, 2025

Abstract

This study examines spillover effects of auditors’ exposure to PCAOB inspection on corporate tax planning effectiveness. We focus on tax planning effectiveness because taxes are material to most companies, the auditing of taxes is an area often scrutinized by the PCAOB, and auditors have opportunities to influence clients’ tax planning decisions. We posit that auditors increased their focus on tax-related issues in response to the onset of this scrutiny and that this increased emphasis resulted in more tax-related knowledge diffusion to clients. Consistent with this notion, we provide evidence that clients’ tax planning effectiveness increased significantly following their auditor’s initial exposure to PCAOB inspection. This study provides new evidence of an unintended real effect of changes to the audit regulatory regime. Our findings are timely as tax-related issues continue to be an area of emphasis for the PCAOB, and recent legislative actions to dissolve the PCAOB into the SEC highlight potential future changes to auditor oversight.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections; auditor knowledge diffusion; spillover effects; regulatory real effects; income tax auditing; tax planning effectiveness.

JEL Classification: H25, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James and Goldman, Nathan C. and Kleppe, Tyler J., Spillover Effects of Auditor Regulation on Corporate Tax Planning Effectiveness (September 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4174569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4174569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
J L Abernathy , A R Finley , E T Rapley , J Stekelberg
External auditor responses to tax risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 516 Posted: 2021
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
J Ahn , H Akamah , S Q Shu
The effect of disclosing audit quality control deficiencies on non-audit tax services: Evidence from Deloitte's 2007 PCAOB Part II inspection report
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 5 Posted: 2021
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
207,451
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies