Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Organizational Capital

84 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022 Last revised: 26 Mar 2025

Wei Cai

Columbia Business School

Andrea Prat

Columbia University in the City of New York; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Jiehang Yu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

Prior research has pointed to differences in organizational capital as a reason for the persistent performance discrepancies among similar firms. In this paper, we develop and validate new measures of organizational capital. Based on over a million crowd-sourced employee reviews scraped from Glassdoor, we construct the measures of organizational capital at the firm-year level using the word embedding model and ChatGPT-generated synthetic reviews. Our measures vary over time in accordance with macro trends, and differ both across and within firms, reflecting firm heterogeneity and major internal changes. We validate our measures by testing empirical predictions of the properties of organizational capital discussed in prior literature. Our findings suggest that this measure captures a slowly evolving intangible asset that is significantly associated with firm performance and top management's influence, aligning with the conceptualization of organizational capital by Dessein and Prat (2022). We further showcase applications of our measures in accounting, economics, finance, and management literature. Taken together, the paper provides implications for various stakeholders who are interested in assessing and managing firms' organizational capital.

Keywords: Organizational capital, Measures, Intangible asset

JEL Classification: D22, L20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Wei and Prat, Andrea and Yu, Jiehang, Measuring Organizational Capital (August 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4174523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4174523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R Agarwal , M Gort
Firm and Product Life Cycles and Firm Survival
American Economic Review , volume 92 , p. 184 - 190 Posted: 2002
A Atkeson , P Kehoe
Modeling and Measuring Organization Capital
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , p. 1026 - 1053 Posted: 2005
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Relational Contracts and the Theory of the Firm*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 39 - 84 Posted: 2002
N Bloom , J Van Reenen
Measuring and Explaining Management Practices Across Firms and Countries*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , p. 1351 - 1408 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,903
RANK
114,831
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies