Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecasting Behavior Following Public News Events

36 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022

Gil Sadka

University of Texas at Dallas

Gurvinder Sandhu

Indian School of Business

K. Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: July 27, 2022

Abstract

We examine how managers adapt their disclosure behavior in response to (public) news shocks not anticipated by them. The extent to which such events would affect subsequent disclosure is a function of the nature of the news---whether it represents ``good'' or ``bad'' news, and whether the news is industry-wide or firm-specific. Appealing to extant disclosure theories, we posit that firm-level and industry-level news events have different implications for the forecasting behavior of firms. We identify firm-level and industry-level news shocks from quarterly stock-returns data and find that the average firm is less likely to issue a forecast if it is a firm-level shock (positive and negative). However, we find a positive association between industry-level shock (positive and negative) and managers’ forecasting propensity. In addition, firms show a greater propensity to meet or exceed analyst consensus following positive shocks and to report a shortfall following negative shocks (firm- and industry-level).

Keywords: Voluntary disclosures, management forecasts

JEL Classification: G32, G38, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sadka, Gil and Sandhu, Gurvinder and Sivaramakrishnan, K., Management Forecasting Behavior Following Public News Events (July 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4174618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4174618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
354,044
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies