Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Consequences of CEOS' Early-Life Exposure to Disasters and Violent Crime

57 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2022

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Abstract

Understanding the behavior of chief executive officers (CEOs) enables investors, regulators, and others to better appreciate CEOs’ corporate decisions. Among the many aspects that determine CEO behavior are early-life experiences; we examine whether a CEO’s exposure to two important events—fatal natural disasters and violent crime—during the individual’s formative years are associated with the firm’s financial reporting outcomes. We argue that a CEO with early life exposure to fatal natural disasters and violent crime is over-confident when dealing with risk is more likely to make riskier decisions. However, this relationship changes to negative when the exposure reaches a certain level, consistent with the CEO becoming risk-averse in making business decisions (Bernile, Bhagwat, and Rau 2017a). Consistently, we report evidence of a U-shaped association between financial reporting quality and both types of early-life exposures. In addition, we find that the link between a CEO’s early-life exposures and financial reporting quality is more pronounced in firms with greater incentives to manage earnings.

Keywords: CEO early-life exposure, fatal natural disasters, violent crime, financial reporting quality.

Suggested Citation:

Golden, Joanna and Kohlbeck, Mark J., Financial Reporting Consequences of CEOS' Early-Life Exposure to Disasters and Violent Crime. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
812,529
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies