Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of the Default: Investors’ Reactions to Default Amortization Periods and Deviations Therefrom

46 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022 Last revised: 25 Jan 2024

Shana Clor-Proell

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Shannon Garavaglia

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Lisa Koonce

University of Texas

Jane M. Thayer

Georgia Institute of Technology

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

As standard setters deliberate the accounting for intangibles, the idea of establishing a default useful life with an option to deviate could reduce the costs and complexities inherent in estimating the useful lives of these assets. Across multiple experiments, we investigate investors’ reactions to companies that utilize versus deviate from a default useful life set by standard setters. We find that investors believe (1) a mandated default life is more of an endorsement of that life than are deviations from it, and (2) companies that deviate will have more difficulty determining the useful life and will face increased scrutiny and justification demands. These insights generally hold whether the deviation results in a shorter or longer expected life, and they become more pronounced as the magnitude of deviation increases. Despite this finding, we observe that investors do not generally view a company’s useful life choice as informative about their true beliefs and judged future economic benefits of the intangible. Collectively, the results suggest that investors view deviations from a default as imposing costs on firms, but not conveying credible information about managers’ true beliefs regarding the economic benefits of the asset. Our findings are informative to standard setters and firm managers.

Keywords: Intangibles, amortization, default, endorsement

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Clor-Proell, Shana and Garavaglia, Shannon and Koonce, Lisa L. and Thayer, Jane M., The Power of the Default: Investors’ Reactions to Default Amortization Periods and Deviations Therefrom (October 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Intangible Assets. APB Opinion No. 17 Posted: 1970
J Bailey
Southwest Airlines gains advantage by hedging on long-term oil contracts
The New York Times Posted: 2007-11-28
S Basu , G Waymire
Has the importance of intangibles really grown? And if so, why? Accounting and Business Research , volume 38 , p. 171 - 190 Posted: 2008
N C Brown , M D Kimbrough
Intangible investment and the importance of firmspecific factors in the determination of earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 539 - 573 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,081
RANK
151,074
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies