Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Sustainability Reporting Mandates: Evidence from the EU Taxonomy Regulation

Accounting Forum, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022 Last revised: 27 Feb 2024

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Karina Bauernhofer

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 21, 2024

Abstract

This paper applies a multimethod approach to analyse the consequences of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The regulation provides a classification system for sustainable economic activities and requires firms to disclose their activities according to this system. We analysed the taxonomy-related disclosures of 45 Austrian nonfinancial companies and conducted 19 semi-structured interviews with representatives of four groups of stakeholders: companies subject to the EU Taxonomy Regulation, financial companies, auditing companies, and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs). We used an inductive approach to structure our data around three topics in the literature: (i) consequences on reporting, (ii) capital-market consequences, and (iii) consequences on corporate actions and firms’ outcomes. For all these topics, our data delivers in-depth insights that enable us to better understand the mechanisms underlying the consequences of sustainability reporting mandates. We describe firms’ reporting response as an endeavour to comply because firms disclose the required key performance indicators (KPIs) but lack the necessary reporting infrastructure to provide detailed information. Regarding capital-market consequences, all interviewees emphasised the usefulness of clearly defined KPIs and the important role of lenders, expecting banks to integrate the taxonomy-related information in their financing decisions. Regarding corporate actions and firms’ outcomes, we found that the implementation of the EU Taxonomy has triggered internal discussions on companies’ strategic positioning with respect to sustainability and a race to the top among firms.

Keywords: European Union, Regulation, Sustainability reporting, Taxonomy regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48, K32, Q54, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Hummel, Katrin and Bauernhofer, Karina, Consequences of Sustainability Reporting Mandates: Evidence from the EU Taxonomy Regulation (February 21, 2024). Accounting Forum, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
M Al-Dosari , A Marques , J Fairbrass
The effect of the EU's directive on non-financial disclosures of the oil and gas industry
Accounting Forum , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 197 Posted: 2023
Z Azam , K M Warraich , S H Awan
One report: Bringing change in corporate reporting through integration of financial and non-financial performance disclosure
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 71 Posted: 2011
D Baboukardos , S Gaia , P Lassou , T Soobaroyen
The multiverse of nonfinancial reporting regulation
Accounting Forum , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,372
RANK
38,060
2 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies