Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Transparency through Mandatory Qualitative Disclosures – Determinants and Effects of UK Tax Strategy Reports

47 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Mathias Dunker

University of Cologne - Department of Accounting

Sina Willkomm

University of Cologne

Date Written: July 28, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants and effects of qualitative and public tax disclosures. It is largely unknown whether mandatory non-numeric tax disclosures as an alternative form of tax transparency can achieve desired objectives. The UK tax strategy disclosure regulation, enacted in the UK Finance Act [FA] 2016, mandates large firms to publicly disclose information on their tax strategy. The regulation is intended to improve transparency around a firm’s approach to tax and to limit tax avoidance. We investigate disclosure characteristics of a sample of hand-collected tax strategy reports and find that firms previously engaged in higher levels of tax avoidance provide poorer disclosures. Our results suggest that tax-avoiding firms exploit the legal leeway and strategically reduce the level of transparency in their reports. Moreover, we document increasing effective tax rates [ETRs] for affected UK firms after the regulation came into effect. Our findings indicate that qualitative tax disclosures are effective in curbing tax avoidance. In light of an ongoing call for more corporate tax transparency, our results should be of interest to policymakers worldwide when designing tax transparency regulations.

Keywords: Tax Transparency, Tax Strategy, Tax Avoidance, Disclosure

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dunker, Mathias and Willkomm, Sina, Tax Transparency through Mandatory Qualitative Disclosures – Determinants and Effects of UK Tax Strategy Reports (July 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
H Akamah , O.-K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
P C Austin
Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
K Balakrishnan , J Blouin , W Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 54 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,200
RANK
263,404
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies