Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Labor Violations: Do Prosocial CEOs Matter?

Posted: 4 Aug 2022

Mariem Khalifa

Zayed University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Mehdi Khedmati

Monash University

Mohammed Aminu Sualihu

Zayed University

Alfred Yawson

University of Adelaide; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: July 29, 2022

Abstract

We examine the impact of prosocial CEOs on corporate labor violations. Contrary to the theoretical proposition that individuals’ prosocial behavior can sometimes backfire, we find that firms managed by prosocial CEOs have lower corporate labor violations. This effect is stronger for under-pressure prosocial CEOs and those with reputational concerns. In the cross-section, we show that the effect of prosocial CEOs on corporate labor violations is more pronounced for firms with weaker governance mechanisms and those operating in opaque environments. Prosocial CEOs may set up labor-related board committees and promote employee welfare programs. Firm performance improves when labor violating firms are managed by prosocial CEOs. Overall, we provide evidence that prosocial CEOs are less likely to make corporate decisions that hurt employees and the firm.

Keywords: Labor-related violations, prosocial CEOs, CEO dismissal, employee well-being

JEL Classification: G30, J83, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khalifa, Mariem and Khedmati, Mehdi and Sualihu, Mohammed Aminu and Yawson, Alfred, Corporate Labor Violations: Do Prosocial CEOs Matter? (July 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175836
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies