Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Dark Side of Competition? Product Market Competition and Auditor-Client Contracting

52 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2022

Tianpei Li

Florida Atlantic University

Stephanie Walton

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Abstract

This study establishes the informational value of a firm’s product market competition, derived from narrative 10-K filing disclosures, in the audit contracting process. Greater product market competition could either serve as means of mitigating agency costs between managers and shareholders or heightening managerial rent seeking activities and the incentive to distort disclosures. Consequently, greater competition could either increase or decrease audit engagement risk. We find that greater product market competition is associated with greater engagement risk. Auditors respond to the higher risk by assessing greater audit fees. Although auditors respond by charging higher fees and dedicating greater effort to these engagements, we nonetheless find that audit quality is negatively affected by greater competition. Our findings are consistent with the dark side hypothesis of product market competition. Overall, our study provides evidence that firm-level competition effects convey valuable information to auditors and play a meaningful role in the contracting process.

Keywords: Product Market Competition, Audit Risk, audit quality, Agency Costs

Suggested Citation:

Li, Tianpei and Walton, Stephanie, Is There a Dark Side of Competition? Product Market Competition and Auditor-Client Contracting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements: A study of the efficacy of certain blue ribbon committee recommendations
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2004
H Akono , M Stein , D Hay , R W Knechel , M Willekens
Estimating audit fees and production models. Ch. 22
Routledge Companion to Auditing , p. 276 - 286 Posted: 2014
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure police
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 47 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
514,660
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies