Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future of Business Reporting in India: An XBRL Perspective

19 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Mohammed Hibban

Srinivas University

Date Written: July 28, 2022

Abstract

Effective and transparent business reporting enables firms to communicate with internal and external stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, creditors, and regulators, clearly and concisely. Strong and sustainable businesses, financial markets, and economies all depend on high-quality business reporting because it gives interested parties the information they need to evaluate an organization's performance and make defensible choices about its ability to produce and keep value. Value in this sense can include social, environmental, or broader economic value in addition to monetary value. Organizations should give their stakeholders high-quality reports because their success is entirely dependent on them. For instance, efficient, high-quality reporting lowers the risk for lenders and could result in lower capital costs. This paper intends to analyze the conceptual aspects of future business reporting in India. For this purpose, the data was collected purely from secondary sources through articles, journals, books, government reports, etc.. And discovered that integrated reporting based on XBRL is the most trustworthy method of communicating with all stakeholder classes.

Keywords: Business reporting; financial reporting, Non-financial reporting, Integrated Reporting, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41; M43; M47

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and Hibban, Mohammed, Future of Business Reporting in India: An XBRL Perspective (July 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
692
RANK
568,026
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies