Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adaptability of Investor Relations in the Face of Disruption and the Effectiveness of Virtual Investor Engagement

58 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022 Last revised: 13 Jul 2023

Andrea K. Down

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Nayana Reiter

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Aida Sijamic Wahid

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto - Accounting

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

Using data on corporate events, such as capital market conferences and analyst/investor days, and the Covid-19 pandemic as a setting, we investigate whether and how companies adapted their investor engagement practices during a period of high disruption. First, we test whether there is a change in the type of firms attending and hosting events and the speed at which firms adapt their investor engagement events after the forced shift to virtual platforms. Second, we test for differences in events’ informativeness before and during the disruption period. Our evidence suggests that the type of firms participating in these events changed significantly. Key factors affecting firms’ adaptability include exposure to disruption, digital resilience, board diversity, and demand for information. Market reactions to events also changed significantly. Consistent with investor engagement being value relevant during uncertain times, we find that virtual investor events were effective in disseminating information valuable to the markets.

Keywords: Investor Communication, COVID-19 Pandemic, Firm Adaptability

Suggested Citation:

Down, Andrea K. and Reiter, Nayana and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Wahid, Aida Sijamic, The Adaptability of Investor Relations in the Face of Disruption and the Effectiveness of Virtual Investor Engagement (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
V Ambrosini , C Bowman , N Collier
Dynamic capabilities: an exploration of how firms renew their resource base
British Journal of Management , volume 20 , p. S9 - S24 Posted: 2009
J Bai , E Brynjolfsson , W Jin , S Steffen , C Wan
Digital resilience: how work-fromhome feasibility affects firm performance. NBER Working Papers Posted: 2021
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , S Yonker
Board diversity, firm risk, and corporate policies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , p. 588 - 612 Posted: 2018
E Blankespoor , G Miller , H White
The role of dissemination in market liquidity: evidence from firms' use of Twitter
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,432
RANK
199,490
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies