Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Compensation for Directors Impact the Relationship Between the Commercial Bank Performance and Concentration? The Case of North American and European Countries

Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Temitayo Ajao

Independent

Date Written: July 29, 2022

Abstract

The direct impact of bank concentration on bank performance has been widely studied with mixed results. We show that high bank concentration has significant negative effects on bank returns of listed commercial banks. However, we find that non-executive compensation positively moderates the relationship between concentration and performance. Can corporate governance measures (non-executive total compensation and strictly independent board members) beneficially moderate the relationship between concentration and listed commercial bank performance in Europe and North America? Using 19,584 observations from Europe and North America listed commercial banks during the 1995-2018, our findings also confirmed that strictly independent board members beneficially moderate the relationship between the bank concentration and listed commercial bank performance in Europe and North America. Additionally, using 556 observations from Europe and North American listed commercial banks during 2006-2018 period, our findings imply that the policymakers should optimally design compensation strategy. Our results are supported by moral hazard and agency theory. Our findings implied that the non-executive board members must be optimally incentivised to ensure effective oversight.

Keywords: Commercial Banks, Product Market Competition, Corporate Governance, Bank Performance, European Banks, North American Banks

Suggested Citation:

Ajao, Temitayo, How Does Compensation for Directors Impact the Relationship Between the Commercial Bank Performance and Concentration? The Case of North American and European Countries (July 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4176261
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies