Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Pathway Model to Five Lines of Accountability in Cybersecurity Governance

54 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022 Last revised: 4 Oct 2023

Sergeja Slapničar

University of Queensland

Micheal Axelsen

University of Queensland

Ivano Bongiovanni

University of Queensland

David Stockdale

University of Queensland

Date Written: July 29, 2022

Abstract

In an in-depth field study, we investigate cyber security governance configurations vis-à-vis the five lines of accountability (5 LoA) - that is, the Three Lines Model extended by the accountability of executive management and the board of directors (IIA, 2020). The aim is to explore the configurations adopted by organizations in governing cybersecurity, and why it would matter for cyber security whether the five lines of accountability are adopted. We define the type of the 5 LoA adoption by: (i) the segregation of the lines that spans from blended to segregated and (ii) the level of engagement of those in line roles that ranges from low to high. In this way, we identify four types of adoption of the 5 LoA: ‘no adoption, ‘ostensible’, ‘implicit’, and ‘explicit’ adoption. We theorize how the type of adoption of the 5 LoA is affected by the interplay of institutional forces and organizations’ need for efficiency and effectiveness, and develop a pathway model for organizations’ adoption of the 5 LoA. We find that organizations that adopt the 5 LoA with clear segregation between these lines (‘ostensible’ and ‘explicit’ adoption) are those subject to prudential regulation (coercive forces), whereas efficiency motives and mimetic forces drive organizations to seek fluidity and flexibility by ‘blending’ the segregated lines (‘implicit’ adoption) to ensure fast reactions to changing environment. Regardless of the segregation between lines and whether they are blended or not, we found that all organizations see scope to improve the level of engagement in the 5 LoA to improve the effectiveness of cyber security governance.

Keywords: cyber risk management, cybersecurity governance, five lines of accountability, institutional theory, constrained-efficiency framework

JEL Classification: M15, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Slapničar, Sergeja and Axelsen, Micheal and Bongiovanni, Ivano and Stockdale, David, A Pathway Model to Five Lines of Accountability in Cybersecurity Governance (July 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4176559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4176559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Acca , Caanz
Cyber and the CFO Posted: 2019
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of political economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Cyber Security Governance Principles Posted: 2022
Reporting on an entity's cybersecurity risk management program and controls
Cyber Security Governance Principles Posted: 2017
Load more
8 Citations
Christopher Calvin , Marc Eulerich , Matthew Holt
Characteristics of cybersecurity and IT involvement by the IA activity
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 56 , p. 100726 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Bert Valkenburg , Ivano Bongiovanni
Unravelling the Three Lines Model in Cybersecurity: A Systematic Literature Review
COSE-D-23-02940 · 49 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 74
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sergeja Slapničar , Tim Vidmar , Elinor Tsen
Process Theory of Supplier Cyber Risk Assessment
COSE-D-24-00096 · 43 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ivano Bongiovanni , David M. Herold , Simon J. Wilde
Protecting the Play: An Integrative Review of Cybersecurity in and for Sports Events
COSE-D-24-00788 · 20 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
386,825
8 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies