Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-market Sentiment and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Anti-Jewish Pogroms

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

76 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Xianda Liu

University of Edinburgh, Business School

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Brian G. M. Main

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: July 29, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of anti-market culture on a firm’s environmental and social (E&S) outcomes. We use the varying degree of intensity of historical anti-Jewish pogroms in 20 European countries as a quasi-exogenous measure of anti-market sentiment. We show that the historical occurrence of anti-Jewish pogroms in Eastern Europe during the period 1800-1927 generated an enduring anti-market sentiment that continues to influence the E&S performance of present-day firms. This relationship is more pronounced for firms with better corporate governance, which rejects the bad governance view on corporate social responsibilities. Taken together, our results add new evidence in support of the view that corporate social responsibility is responsive to institutional differences and may reflect the presence of an anti-market ideology that has historical roots.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Pogroms, Jews, Social norms

JEL Classification: G00

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xianda and Hou, Wenxuan and Main, Brian G. M., Anti-market Sentiment and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Anti-Jewish Pogroms (July 29, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4176262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
I Abrahams
Jewish Life in the Middle Ages. Routledge: Dulles Posted: 2010
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , Robinson , J A
Social Structure and Development: A Legacy of the Holocaust in Russia
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , p. 895 - 946 Posted: 2011
D Acemoglu , S Johnson
Unbundling Institutions. Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , p. 949 - 995 Posted: 2005
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation
The American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
532
RANK
692,403
7 Citations
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies