Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Dividend, Agency Problems, and Corporate Investment

34 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2022

Guilherme Kirch

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS)

Daniel Francisco Vancin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

In this paper we try to understand the adverse consequences of mandatory dividend rules. We identify two main reasons why firms pay only the mandatory dividend: financial constraints and private benefits. Using a sample of Brazilian companies, we found evidences that firms that pay only the minimum dividend are motivated by financial constraints and private benefits. Further, firms that pay only the mandatory minimum dividend due to financial constraint considerations tend to have a higher value attached to their cash holdings and tend to reduce investments more intensely in response to a shock that increases the cost of external finance.

Keywords: dividend policy, corporate investment, Mandatory Dividend Rules, Financial constraints, Agency Problems and Private Benefits, developing country

Suggested Citation:

Kirch, Guilherme and Vancin, Daniel Francisco, Mandatory Dividend, Agency Problems, and Corporate Investment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4177105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Anup Agrawal , Narayanan Jayaraman
The dividend policies of all-equity firms: A direct test of the free cash flow theory
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Thorsten Beck , Asli Demirgüç-Kunt , Ross Levine
Law, endowments, and finance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 181 Posted: 2003
Barbara A Bliss , Yingmei Cheng , David J Denis
Corporate payout, cash retention, and the supply of credit: Evidence from the 2008-2009 credit crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 521 - 540 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies