Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hostile takeover threats, managerial myopia, and asset redeployability

42 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Kriengkrai Boonlert-U-Thai

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Ali Uyar

La Rochelle Business School

Merve Kilic

Samsun University

Date Written: August 2, 2022

Abstract

Purpose - Exploiting two novel measures of takeover vulnerability and asset redeployability, we investigate the effect of the takeover market on redeployable assets. Redeployable assets are those with alternative uses. Asset redeployability is a crucial concept in the literature on investment irreversibility.

Design/Methodology/Approach - In addition to the standard regression analysis, we execute several robustness checks: propensity score matching, entropy balancing, instrumental-variable analysis, and GMM dynamic panel data analysis.

Findings - Our results reveal that more takeover threats reduce asset redeployability significantly, corroborating the managerial myopia hypothesis. Hostile takeover threats reduce managers' job security and thus induce them to myopically focus on the current utilization of assets in the short run, rather than how they may be deployed in the long run, resulting in less asset redeployability.

Originality - Our study is the first to investigate the effect of takeover threats on asset redeployability. Because our measure of takeover vulnerability is principally based on the staggered passage of state legislations, which are plausibly exogenous, our results likely reflect causality, rather than merely an association.

Keywords: Takeovers, Market for corporate control, Corporate governance, Redeployable asset, Asset redeployability, Asset specificity

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Boonlert-U-Thai, Kriengkrai and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Uyar, Ali and Kilic, Merve, Hostile takeover threats, managerial myopia, and asset redeployability (August 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4178764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4178764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A B Abel , J C Eberly
Optimal investment with costly reversibility
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 581 - 593 Posted: 1996
R Aggarwal , A Ghosh
Director's remuneration and correlation on firm's performance: a study from the Indian corporate
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 57 , issue 5 , p. 373 - 399 Posted: 2015
A H Al-Rassas , H Kamardin
Earnings quality and audit attributes in high concentratedownership market
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 377 - 399 Posted: 2016
J Anand
Redeployment of corporate resources: a study of acquisition strategies in the US defense industries, 1978-1996
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 383 - 400 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
749
RANK
622,944
5 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies