Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Failure to Resolve Uncertainty and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure

56 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Yushi Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Atul Rai

Wichita State University

Date Written: August 3, 2022

Abstract

This study hypothesizes that if an earnings announcement fails to create a reasonable consensus across investors regarding future outcomes, management will issue additional voluntary disclosures to narrow the divergence in investor beliefs. Prior literature has not examined how management responds to uncertainty persisting after an earnings announcement. We construct an empirical proxy using standardized change in implied volatilities around an earnings announcement date (an EA) to measure investor consensus and establish its linkage with voluntary disclosures contained in subsequent 8-K reports and management forecasts. We first document a robust positive relationship between the failure of the earnings announcement to build consensus as per our measure and consequent managerial actions such as voluntary forecasts and the speed with which these forecasts are issued. We support this finding through cross-sectional evidence, which shows that the association between persistent post-earnings implied volatility and subsequent managerial actions are stronger when the options market information is more reliable and when firms’ earnings announcements attract more market attention. Finally, we show that the managerial response to the failure to resolve uncertainty through the earnings announcement results both in additional disclosures in the current quarter that reduce implied volatility, and through lower uncertainty at the earnings announcements of subsequent quarters. Our results show that managers typically try to reduce investor uncertainty and learn effectively from market proxies related to investor uncertainty.

Keywords: options market; implied volatilities; voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, D80, D83

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yushi and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai and Rai, Atul, Failure to Resolve Uncertainty and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure (August 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4179936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
H Akamah , S Q Shu
Large Shareholder Portfolio Diversification and Voluntary Disclosure*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2918 - 2950 Posted: 2021
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does Earnings Guidance Affect Market Returns? The Nature and Information Content of Aggregate Earnings Guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
I Babenko , O Boguth , Y Tserlukevich
Idiosyncratic Cash Flows and Systematic Risk
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 425 - 456 Posted: 2016
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure as Complements: A Test of the Confirmation Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
RANK
321,382
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies