Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Non-Performing Loans Evolve along the Economic Cycle? The Role of Macroeconomic Conditions and Legal Efficiency

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, https://doi.org/10.1080/09638180.2022.2071960

54 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Nicolas Rudolf

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Wilhelm Schmundt

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 8, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the development of non-performing loans (NPL) held by European banks along the economic cycle. During the global financial crisis and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis, banks from all European countries experienced a substantial increase in NPLs. We find that these increases are mainly associated with macroeconomic determinants and characteristics of banks’ business models. Substantial differences across countries exist in the duration and efficiency of the NPL resolution after the crisis. We exploit cross-country and time-variant differences in insolvency and contract enforcement procedures to document that the outcome of NPL resolution is associated with the duration and the costs of insolvency and contract enforcement during the economic recovery phase. Our findings suggest that the design of a country’s legal regime can ensure a swift NPL resolution during the recovery phase while the build-up of NPLs during a crisis is mainly attributable to economic conditions.

Keywords: Non-performing loans, Legal efficiency, Financial institutions, International accounting, Bank regulation, Bank accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M48, F34, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Rudolf, Nicolas and Schmundt, Wilhelm, How Do Non-Performing Loans Evolve along the Economic Cycle? The Role of Macroeconomic Conditions and Legal Efficiency (April 8, 2022). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, https://doi.org/10.1080/09638180.2022.2071960, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M E K Agoraki , M D Delis , F Pasiouras
Regulations, competition and bank risktaking in transition countries
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 48 Posted: 2011
P Angelini , M Bofondi , L Zingales
The Origins of Italian NPLs Posted: 2017
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of errorcomponents models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
A Ari , S Chen , L Ratnovski
The dynamics of non-performing loans during banking crises: A new database with post-COVID-19 implications
Journal of Banking & Finance Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Madeline Kalista , Zoltán Novotny-Farkas
Accounting Measurement, Prudential Regulation, and the Real Effects of IFRS 9 on Non-Performing Loans
55 Pages · Posted: 4 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 18 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 382
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies