Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Forces that Shape Mandatory ESG Reporting

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 96, 2022

33 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Victor Wagner

LMU Munich School of Management; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 30, 2022

Abstract

Having been sidelined for decades, environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting by business en-tities has now firmly entered the mainstream in corporate reporting. In this chapter, we outline the economic forces and social institutions that shape mandatory ESG reporting. We start by introducing the term, devel-opment and significance of the ESG concept and related approaches that describe corporate actions beyond shareholder value maximization as well as corporate social and environmental exposures and impacts. ESG reporting is then characterized as an emerging complementary element of the broader phenomenon of cor-porate reporting. We continue by discussing the economic forces shaping ESG reporting as reactions to a growing collective awareness that a neoliberalist economic order, with companies focused solely on profit maximization, is causing serious ecological and social problems since externalities are not sufficiently in-ternalized. Corporate reporting and transparency about firms’ ESG-related matters are then presented as a potential remedy that, however, faces its own challenges and limitations. We then describe the evolving regulatory landscape of mandatory ESG reporting along with its key players and initiatives.

Suggested Citation:

Sellhorn, Thorsten and Wagner, Victor, The Forces that Shape Mandatory ESG Reporting (July 30, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 96, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4179479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
3 Citations
Alessandra Kulik , Michael Dobler
Stakeholder participation in the ISSB’s standard-setting process: the consultations on the first exposure drafts on sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 14 , issue 7 , p. 349 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Jan Bebbington , Matias Laine , Carlos Larrinaga , Giovanna Michelon
Environmental Accounting in the European Accounting Review : A Reflection
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 1107 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Vinay Kumar Dawar , Sanjay Gupta , Ashish Bajaj , Meenu Gupta
Unveiling ESG realities: Fuzzy AHP assessment of greenwashing in investor portfolios
South Asian Journal of Business Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,664
RANK
26,300
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies