Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Based on Overconfidence of CEO and CFO

35 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Volkan Muslu

C.T. Bauer College of Business University of Houston

Date Written: August 2, 2022

Abstract

Through close interactions with their CEO and CFO, independent directors as well as subordinate executives can assess the overconfidence of their CEO and CFO. We show that independent directors and subordinate executives trade on this assessment, albeit differently. Independent directors of a firm with an overconfident CEO and CFO sell their stock holdings, whereas subordinate executives do not do so significantly. These trades are not driven by firm characteristics or earnings surprise, refuting an alternative explanation that insiders simply trade on private information about corporate performance. The volume of related trades increases with the length of tenure the independent directors and subordinate executives share with their CEO and CFO. Independent directors sell more in response to firm-level overconfidence if they share longer tenure with their CEO and CFO. In contrast, subordinate executives sell less in response to firm-level overconfidence if they share longer tenure with their CEO and CFO. Our findings suggest that, independent directors—and not subordinate executives—can curb overconfidence of their CEO or CFO.

Keywords: Insider trading, overconfidence, CEO, insiders, earnings announcement, private information.

JEL Classification: M41,G14, G34, M12, D82

Suggested Citation:

Demirkan, Sebahattin and Felix, Robert and Muslu, Volkan, Insider Trading Based on Overconfidence of CEO and CFO (August 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4179835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
Does Section 16b deter insider trading by target managers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 39 , p. 295 - 319 Posted: 1995
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
284,107
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies