Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Ratings: A Compass without Direction

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lukasz Pomorski

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Edward M. Watts

Yale School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 2, 2022

Abstract

ESG ratings firms provide information to investors, analysts, and corporate managers about the relation between corporations and non-investor stakeholders interests. Recently, ESG ratings providers have come under scrutiny over concerns of the reliability of their assessments. In this Closer Look, we examine these concerns. We review the demand for ESG information, the stated objectives of ESG ratings providers, how ratings are determined, the evidence of what they achieve, and structural aspects of the industry that potentially influence ratings. Our purpose is to help companies, investors, and regulators better understand the use of ESG ratings and to highlight areas where they can improve. We find that while ESG ratings providers may convey important insights into the nonfinancial impact of companies, significant shortcomings exist in their objectives, methodologies, and incentives which detract from the informativeness of their assessments.

We ask:

Why do ESG ratings often fail to meet their stated objectives? Is it due to methodological choices these firms make, or the sheer challenge of measuring a concept as broad and all-encompassing as “ESG?”

Are fund managers properly motivated to ensure ESG ratings are reliable in predicting risk and performance? What steps do they take to validate ratings before using them?

Despite their weaknesses, do ESG ratings have a role to play in reporting and compliance purposes?

Would more expansive corporate disclosure improve the quality of ESG ratings? Is it even possible for companies to disclosure the vast number of stakeholder-related metrics that feed into ESG ratings?

Should the SEC establish policies, procedures, and protections to reduce conflicts of interest and improve market confidence in the quality of ESG ratings?

Keywords: Corporate governance, ESG, environmental, social, governance, sustainability, socially responsible investing, corporate responsibility, sustainability, ESG ratings, ESG initiatives, ESG disclosure, board of directors, corporate governance research

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Pomorski, Lukasz and Tayan, Brian and Watts, Edward, ESG Ratings: A Compass without Direction (August 2, 2022). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Aneesh Raghunandan , Shiva Rajgopal
Do ESG Funds Make Stakeholder-Friendly Investments?
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
The Principles for Responsible Investment were developed by global institutional investors at the request of the United Nations. See Principles for Responsible Investment
Simon Rajna Gibson Brandon , Philipp Glossner , Pedro Krueger , Tom Matos , Steffen
Do Responsible Investors Invest Responsibly?
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2022-02
Jeff Dunn , Shaun Fitzgibbons , Lukasz Pomorski
Assessing Risk Through Environmental, Social and Governance Exposures
Journal of Investment Management Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10,648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,467
RANK
1,152
7 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies