Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Earnings Quality Influence Corporate Social Responsibility Performance? Empirical Evidence on the Causal Link

Abacus-A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business, https://doi.org/10.1111/abac.12286

58 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022 Last revised: 25 Apr 2023

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Chuan Yu

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: November 29, 2022

Abstract

The study examines the causal links between earnings quality and corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance using a large sample of United States (US) firms from 1992 to 2013. We first find that the association between earnings quality and CSR performance is positive and significant. We then test the flow of causality using Granger’s (1969) lead-lag analysis to determine whether changes in earnings quality cause changes in CSR performance or vice versa. Our findings show that changes in earnings quality cause changes in a firm’s CSR performance but not vice versa. Further analysis shows that earnings quality reduces the cost of equity capital for firms with higher CSR performance. These findings suggest that one plausible explanation for firms with higher earnings quality to maintain better CSR performance is to reduce their cost of equity capital.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance; Earnings quality; Granger causality; Cost of equity capital

JEL Classification: G10, M41, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Yu, Chuan, Does Earnings Quality Influence Corporate Social Responsibility Performance? Empirical Evidence on the Causal Link (November 29, 2022). Abacus-A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business, https://doi.org/10.1111/abac.12286, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
O Abdelsalam , A Chantziaras , M Ibrahim , K Omoteso
The Impact of Religiosity on Earnings Quality: International Evidence from the Banking Sector , volume 53 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2021
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives Versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Quality in Uk Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
RANK
584,078
2 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies