Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowledge is Power: A Field Experiment in the Chinese and US Stock Markets

74 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Wong Sonia

Lingnan University - Department of Finance and Insurance; Lingnan University

Yuan Xue

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Xiaofeng Zhao

Lingnan University

Date Written: August 3, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the causal effect of financial knowledge on stock pricing efficiency. Leveraging a specially designed investor education website, we conduct a field experiment, sharing insights on the pricing of accounting accruals with investors across China and the US on social media. We find that the treatment stocks experience a reduction in accrual mispricing relative to the control stocks. This effect is particularly pronounced when knowledge that enhances the conceptual understanding of accruals is paired with knowledge that aids in the quantitative application of accruals. Furthermore, the treatment effect is strengthened among stocks with investors who engage more deeply with the educational contents yet possess lower financial sophistication.

Keywords: Financial knowledge, accrual mispricing, investor education, field experiment, social media

JEL Classification: G14; G41, G53, C93

Suggested Citation:

Sonia, Wong and Xue, Yuan and Zhang, Bohui and Zhao, Xiaofeng, Knowledge is Power: A Field Experiment in the Chinese and US Stock Markets (August 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4179996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
M Altman
Implications of behavioural economics for financial literacy and public policy
The Journal of Socio-Economics , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 677 - 690 Posted: 2012
D Avramov , T Chordia , G Jostova , A Philipov
Anomalies and financial distress
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 159 Posted: 2013
S Balsam , E Bartov , C Marquardt
Accruals management, investor sophistication, and equity valuation: Evidence from 10-Q filings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 987 - 1012 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
219,707
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies