Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Social Capital and the Value Relevance of Accounting Metrics

55 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Michael S. Luehlfing

Louisiana Tech University

William R. McCumber

College of Business, Louisiana Tech University

Ken Qiu

Millsaps College

Date Written: July 21, 2022

Abstract

Equity investors value CEO social capital when pricing firm equity. When CEO social capital is high, the value relevance of the book value of equity declines whereas the value relevance of earnings measures increases. Results are stronger for firms in high-tech industries where information asymmetries are higher. Social capital may be deconstructed into informational and reputational effects, and we report that social capital is a meaningful determinant of value relevance in both scenarios. Results are robust to alternative variable definitions, controls, and tests for endogeneity. The results strongly suggest that CEO social capital improves the information environment around firms, benefiting users of accounting information.

Keywords: CEO social capital, value relevance, accounting metrics

JEL Classification: G30, G40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Luehlfing, Michael S. and McCumber, William R. and Qiu, Huan, CEO Social Capital and the Value Relevance of Accounting Metrics (July 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4180125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 1968
D Banker , Rajiv , Rong Huang , Ramachandran Natarajan
Incentive Contracting and Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 3 Posted: 2009-06
Rolf W Banz , William J Breen
Sample-Dependent Results Using Accounting and Market Data: Some Evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 779 - 793 Posted: 1986
Load more
1 Citations
William R. McCumber , Huan Qiu , Md. Shariful Islam
CEO social capital and the value relevance of accounting metrics: International evidence
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 80 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
643
RANK
549,043
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies