Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Taxes and Corporate Choice: Evidence from 2015 Tax Cut in South Korea

47 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2022

Eric Lee

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Saeyeul Park

Yonsei University

Abstract

In this paper, we test the old view and the new view of dividend taxation using a new set of evidence from a unique event. Using a multiple regression discontinuity (MRD) setting from the 2015 tax reform in South Korea, we find that investors react positively to the news of an anticipated dividend tax cut. The positive market reaction is more pronounced for firms with higher investment intensity, more investment opportunities, less financial constraint, and less information asymmetry. We also find that firms with more investment opportunities but less capital expenditures in the past are more likely to opt for the dividend tax cut. Using a difference-in-differences analysis, we document that corporate investment increases for firms that received the tax cut, along with a decrease in implied cost of equity. As corroborating evidence, we find that these firms are also more likely to issue equity to finance their new projects. Our findings are consistent with the notion that firms make a rational choice of dividend taxes based on their needs for financing and investment.

Keywords: Payout Policy, dividend tax cut, multiple regression discontinuity, difference-indifferences, corporate investment, cost of equity

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Eric Seung Chul and Park, Saeyeul, Dividend Taxes and Corporate Choice: Evidence from 2015 Tax Cut in South Korea. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4180284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Large Sample Properties of Matching Estimators for Average Treatment Effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
H Almeida , C.-S Kim , H B Kim
Internal Capital Markets in Business Groups: Evidence from the Asian Financial Crisis
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 6 , p. 2539 - 2586 Posted: 2015
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob
Dividend Taxes and Income Shifting
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 717 Posted: 2016
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
hu guoliu , Yanlei Jiang , Jun Hu
Personal Income Tax Deferral, Executives’ Risk Tolerance, and Insider Trading Profitability: Evidence from Personal Income Tax Deferral Payments for Equity Incentives in China
EMEMAR-D-24-00188 · 38 Pages · Posted: 18 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
717
RANK
741,762
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies