Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the relationship between board practices and firm performance

Owusu, A. (2021) Revisiting the relationship between board practices and firm performance. Corporate Board: Role, Duties, and Composition.

19 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2022

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Date Written: June 11, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how firm performance is influenced by board practices in Ghana. The analysis shows that CEO duality has a negative impact on firm performance, evidence that supports agency theory’s position. Further analysis shows that the smaller Ghanaian board size appears to be optimal because it has a positive impact on firm performance. However, the larger non-executive director representation on the board has no impact on firm performance. Overall, these results suggest that the Ghanaian firms should be encouraged to separate the role of CEO and the board chair positions, have a board size of between eight and nine, and make a good use of non-executive directors’ time in the board decision process if they are to achieve better performance.

Keywords: corporate governance; board of directors; board practices; firm performance

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M13

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews, Revisiting the relationship between board practices and firm performance (June 11, 2021). Owusu, A. (2021) Revisiting the relationship between board practices and firm performance. Corporate Board: Role, Duties, and Composition., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
E Adda , L Consulting
Exploring the legal framework for business and ethical practices in Ghana
Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 69 - 80 Posted: 2006
J Abor , N Biekpe
Corporate governance, ownership structure and performance of SMEs in Ghana: implications for financing opportunities
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 300 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
486
RANK
605,468
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies