Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Working Capital Management on Firm’S Profitability Listed in Psx: A Case of Automotive Sector of Paksitan

63 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2022 Last revised: 12 Aug 2022

Farheen Ramsha

Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, Karachi

Bushra Dilawar Khan

Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, Karachi

Kanwal Ahmed

Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, Karachi

Saira Kanwal

Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, Karachi

Date Written: December 25, 2017

Abstract

Working capital management deals with the balance of current assets and liabilities. Working capital management maximizes the level of firms to an optimal value. With time evidence has shown a significant impact of working capital on the performance of firms. Working capital management addresses the management of companies’ short-term capital and the objective of working capital management is to endorse satisfying profitability and minimize liabilities.

Hence, the study examines the impact of working capital management on automotive manufacturing firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange for the period 2007-2016. Profitability was measured by the performance of the firms by the rate of return on assets as the dependent variable. The cash conversion cycle, average payment period, inventory conversion period, and average collection period determined the working capital of the firms as independent working capital variables. Moreover, the control variable is firm size.

The data was examined using EViews (version 10). The finding reveals that the average collection period, inventory conversion period, average payment period, and cash conversion cycle have an insignificant negative relationship with profitability. In the case of firm size, its relationship with profitability is positively significant. The value of R square reveals that our model is capturing 58% variation from independent and control variables. The value of F statistics indicates that our model is well fitted.

In general collection payments from customers earlier and paying suppliers longer, keeping the product in stock less time, are all related to positive performance. Therefore, managers can increase a firm’s profitability by improving the performance of management of working capital components. The study in this case is done with delicate methods and proper sample models taken from verified sources.


Keywords: Working Capital, Working Capital Management, Profitability, Automotive Industry, E-Views

JEL Classification: C12, C22, C83, C87, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ramsha, Farheen and Dilawar Khan, Bushra and Ahmed, Kanwal and Kanwal, Saira, The Impact of Working Capital Management on Firm’S Profitability Listed in Psx: A Case of Automotive Sector of Paksitan (December 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4180512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Ho: Profitability is not positively associated to the inventory conversion period. H2: Profitability is positively associated to the inventory conversion period. Ho: Profitability is not positively associated to the average payment period. H3: Profitability is positively associated to the average payment period. Ho: Profitability is not positively associated to the cash conversion cycle. H4: Profitability is positively associated to the cash conversion cycle. Ho: Profitability is not positively associated to the firm size. H5: Profitability is positively associated to the firm size
References Ahsen S, Faisal M. & Muhammad N (2011) Working Capital Management & Profitability: Evidence from Pakistan Firms , volume 3 Posted: 2011-12
Automark Magazine
Posted: 2016
M Akram , S Jamil , N Ali , B Ali , Abdulsattar , W Khan
Impact of Working Capital Management On Market Return: A Comparative Study of Pakistan and Indian Chemical Sector
Business Management Dynamics , volume 5 , issue 10 , p. 10 - 25 Posted: 2016-04
N Bibi , S Amjad
The Relationship Between Liquidity and Firms' Profitability: A Case Study of Karachi Stock Exchange
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
531,260
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies