Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Social Capital and Non-GAAP Earnings Disclosure

59 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

William R. McCumber

College of Business, Louisiana Tech University

Ken Qiu

Millsaps College

Michael S. Luehlfing

Louisiana Tech University

Date Written: July 30, 2022

Abstract

Utilizing a hand-collected sample of non-GAAP earnings disclosures from 2003-2016, we investigate the relationship between social capital/network connections of Chief Executive Officer (CEOs) and both their propensity to disclose non-GAAP earnings metrics as well as the quality of the disclosures. Firms led by CEOs with higher social capital are more likely to disclose non-GAAP earnings and do so to meet or beat consensus earnings estimates. There is no evidence to suggest that non-GAAP earnings disclosures reported by firms led by CEOs with higher social capital are obfuscatory; rather such non-GAAP disclosures are intended to decrease information asymmetries between the firm and market participants, in particular, non-GAAP exclusions are shown to be informative with regard to future operating earnings. Additional analyses suggest that the reputation effect motivates the usage of non-GAAP earnings disclosures whereas the information effect positively contributes to the quality of non-GAAP earnings disclosures.

Keywords: CEOs, networks, social capital, non-GAAP, earnings informativeness

JEL Classification: G30, G40, M41

Suggested Citation:

McCumber, William R. and Qiu, Huan and Luehlfing, Michael S., CEO Social Capital and Non-GAAP Earnings Disclosure (July 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4180110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Ahmed Abdel-Meguid , Jared N Jennings , Kari Joseph Olsen , Soliman , T Mark
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
N Bansal , A Seetharaman , F Wang
Managerial risk-taking incentives and Non-GAAP earnings disclosures
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 9 , p. 100 - 121 Posted: 2013
J Bentley , T Christensen , K Gee , B Whipple
Disentangling Managers' and Analysts' Non-GAAP Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
A Bhandari , B Mammadov , A Shelton , M Thevenot
It is not only what you know, it is also who you know: CEO Network Connections and Financial Reporting Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
407,330
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies