Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Frontline Employee Participation in Strategic Planning on Managers’ Budget Slack Creation and Evaluation: A Lab-in-the-Field Experiment

Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

56 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Yasheng Chen

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

James Xede

Hong Kong Metropolitan University

Date Written: August 2, 2022

Abstract

We examined whether participation of frontline employees (FEs) in a firm’s strategic planning using strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT) analysis mitigates managers’ budget slack creation and whether it improves budget evaluation. Using a lab-in-the-field experiment in an agro-processing firm in Ghana, we found that FE participation in strategic planning enhanced managers’ identification of the number of internal and external factors affecting the firm, enabling the firm to better understand the environment in which the budget process is undertaken. We also found that FE participation reduced managers’ budget slack creation and bias in their performance evaluation. In an additional analysis, we found that FE participation improved managers’ budget allocation, effectively redirecting the firm’s resources to units where they were most needed. Overall, the results showed that FE participation in strategic planning improved the managers’ information environment, thereby positively influencing their choices and actions.

Keywords: frontline employee participation, strategic planning, budget slack, allocation, evaluation, lab-in-the-field experiment

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yasheng and Xede, James, The Effect of Frontline Employee Participation in Strategic Planning on Managers’ Budget Slack Creation and Evaluation: A Lab-in-the-Field Experiment (August 2, 2022). Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4180131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
N J Allen , J P Meyer
The measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance and normative commitment to the organization
Journal of occupational psychology , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1990
H Ayaz , P A Shewokis , S Bunce , K Izzetoglu , B Willems , B Onaral
Optical brain monitoring for operator training and mental workload assessment
Neuroimage , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 47 Posted: 2012
S Baiman
Agency research in managerial accounting: A second look
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 341 - 371 Posted: 1990
S Baiman , J H Evans
Pre-Decision Information and Participative Management Control Systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
RANK
605,468
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies