Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changing of the Guard: Colleen Burton's Swiss Conundrum

Darden Case No. UVA-S-0383

3 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2022 Last revised: 9 Jan 2023

Ming-Jer Chen

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Pranav Dalmia

Independent

Abstract

Colleen Burton has taken over the account of a Swiss client for her New York–based financial-services company. Landing the account, after a long courtship, had been a coup for her midmarket firm. The investor, however, has expressed his disapproval and unease with his new manager, and Burton's best efforts have failed to win him over. On a trip to Switzerland, she learns of a personal conflict of interest involving one of the client's outside fund managers. She cannot afford to jeopardize this critical relationship for her firm—or breach her code of ethics. Gaining the client's trust as his adviser just got trickier.

Excerpt

UVA-S-0383

Rev. Dec. 20, 2022

Changing of the Guard: Colleen Burton's Swiss Conundrum

Colleen Burton looked out the large windows of her firm's 10th floor office in Manhattan. AmbiOne Advisors (AmbiOne) had made the workspace top notch, and she had often admired its near-perfect blend of aesthetics and functionality. But today her mind was far from the office. She was deep in thought about matters relating to one of her firm's major clients, a high-net-worth individual (HNWI) in Switzerland. The relationship had recently been transferred to her from a colleague, Ryan Sullivan, who had handled the account successfully for years.

AmbiOne Advisors

Established 30 years ago in New York, AmbiOne was a middle-market firm with clients that were HNWIs and small- to medium-sized companies, plus a few billionaires or large corporations. The typical investment portfolio ranged from $10 million to $200 million. The broad services provided by the firm included investment reporting and advice for asset allocation, investment manager selection, and currency management, among others. Over the years, AmbiOne had steadily increased its client base, beginning with a US-centric focus but expanding to Western Europe in the last decade.

. . .

Keywords: strategy, client relations, conflict of interest, consulting, investor relations, problem solving

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ming-Jer and Dalmia, Pranav, Changing of the Guard: Colleen Burton's Swiss Conundrum. Darden Case No. UVA-S-0383, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4182747
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies