Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Product Market Output Changes to Capture Business Fundamentals

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4182996

50 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022

Haizhen Lin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Business Economics & Public Policy

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

We use changes in aggregate product market output as instruments for changes in the business fundamentals of the firms operating in those markets. These output changes are remote from individual firms’ economic and accounting choices while still capturing key fluctuations in their relevant business conditions. For many industries, public sources provide machine-readable output time-series data, sometimes disaggregated cross-sectionally (e.g., by geography). To provide evidence of the usefulness of this approach for empirical accounting research, we obtain output changes for five-digit NAICS code industries from the Census Bureau and county-level output changes for skilled nursing facilities from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Estimating piecewise linear regressions similar to those in extensive prior accounting research on conditional conservatism, we find that accruals are more strongly correlated with decreases in industry output than with increases in industry output, but operating cash flow does not exhibit such an asymmetric response. Consistent with theory, we find that economic factors (e.g., market competition and global diversification) and accounting factors (e.g., debt covenants) influence the strength of the asymmetric relation between accruals and industry output changes. Overall, our method offers researchers a viable alternative to the use of firm-level proxies for changes in firms’ business fundamentals (e.g., stock returns, less discretionary accounting line items, or non-financial measures) that yields interpretable empirical results consistent with theory.

Keywords: asymmetric timeliness, fundamental performance, economic events, industry, county, census, skilled nursing facility, theory

JEL Classification: D22, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Haizhen and Ryan, Stephen G. and Tseng, Ayung, Using Product Market Output Changes to Capture Business Fundamentals (August 5, 2022). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4182996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4182996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4182996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , Stanford-Harris , M
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts Over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
S S Alexander
Income Measurement in a Dynamic Economy
Studies in Accounting Theory , p. 127 - 200 Posted: 1962
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung , M C Anderson , R D Banker , Janakiraman , S N
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,083
RANK
446,506
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies