Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance through the Lens of 'Corporate Governance: An International Review- CGIR': A Three Decade Retrospective Analysis

37 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2022

Nohade Nasrallah

Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers (CNAM)

Muneer M. Alshater

The University of Jordan; Philadelphia University, Jordan

Hazem Marashdeh

Abu Dhabi University

Osama Atayah

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Review

Research Question/Issue: This study aims to analyze the temporal development and conceptual contribution of the journal of “Corporate Governance: An International Review (CGIR)” proliferated through impactful theories and publications.

Research Findings/Insights: Using 1,112 documents from the Scopus database over 1993-2021,
we found that CGIR has established itself as a prominent journal in the field of corporate governance (CG) by extensively contributing to the exploration and maturation of its concepts and theories. The study identifies four main clusters: CG and Executives’ compensation schemes, CG and performance, CG key stakeholders, and CG pillars. CGIR is recommended to have further studies about CG topics in small and medium enterprises and developing countries.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: We gather 1,112 documents over 1993-2021 and apply bibliometric techniques encompassing bibliographic coupling, keyword analysis, and content analysis using R-Studio and VOSviewer. It is also worth investigating CG topics in conjunction with the rise of ESG publications from regional, national, and global perspectives.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: The analysis is beneficial for the scientific community, CG institutes, corporations, universities, scholars, and governmental entities.


Keywords: Corporate Governance; Corporate Governance: An International Review; Bibliometric; Scientometric

Suggested Citation:

Nasrallah, Nohade and Alshater, Muneer and Marashdeh, Hazem and Atayah, Osama, Corporate Governance through the Lens of 'Corporate Governance: An International Review- CGIR': A Three Decade Retrospective Analysis (August 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4182574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4182574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
R V Aguilera , R Crespi-Cladera
Global corporate governance: On the relevance of firms' ownership structure
Journal of World Business , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 2016
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
M M Alshater , O F Atayah , A Hamdan
Journal of Sustainable Finance and Investment: A bibliometric analysis
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2021
Ö Arslan , M B Karan
Ownership and control structure as determinants of corporate debt maturity: A panel study of an emerging market
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 312 - 324 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
RANK
724,439
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies