Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market for Corporate Control and Demand for Auditing: Evidence from International M&A Laws

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Aug 2022 Last revised: 27 Dec 2022

Ahrum Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Jong Chool Park

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 7, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether and how the market for corporate control affects the demand for audit service in a cross-country setting. In so doing, we exploit the staggered enactments of merger and acquisition (M&A) laws as an exogenous shock that substantially increases takeover pressure. We find that firms are more likely to choose Big 4 auditors in the period after the enactment of M&A laws, suggesting that the takeover pressure heightened by the passage of M&A laws increases the demand for audit verification and assurance by high-quality auditors. We also find that the enactment of M&A laws leads to greater demand for Big 4 auditors through two channels: managerial commitment to curtailing agency problems and the enhancement of board monitoring. We further show that improved auditor quality facilitates creditors’ and investors’ reliance on accounting information, as reflected in greater use of accounting-based debt covenants and enhanced earnings informativeness, respectively, in the post-enactment period. Overall, our results suggest that auditors play a key role in strengthening corporate governance after the enactment of M&A laws.

Keywords: auditor selection, international merger and acquisition (M&A) laws, managerial commitment, board monitoring, debt covenants, earnings informativeness

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Ahrum and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lee, Jay Junghun and Park, Jong Chool, Market for Corporate Control and Demand for Auditing: Evidence from International M&A Laws (August 7, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4183716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4183716
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies