Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Response to the War in Ukraine: Stakeholder Governance or Stakeholder Pressure?

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 839/2022

54 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Anete Pajuste

Stockholm School of Economics, Riga; European Gorporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Boston University

Anna Toniolo

Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

This Article empirically investigates the corporate response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the framework of the stakeholder capitalism debate. Some describe corporate leaders’ decision to withdraw from Russia as an example of stakeholder governance, maintaining that they placed social responsibility over profits. Others question the authenticity of corporate support for Ukraine and argue that companies left Russia mainly driven by operational and reputational concerns.

Against this backdrop, we conduct an empirical study of reactions to the outbreak of the war from companies in the S&P500 and STOXX600 indices. We explore whether managers effectively decided mostly on ethical and moral grounds, or whether perhaps there was another possible channel. In particular, we focus on assessing the role played by stakeholder pressure exercised on companies to leave Russia.

First, we examine whether revenue exposure to Russia was associated with the corporate decision to withdraw or suspend Russian activities, and the speed of the decision’s announcement. The findings indicate that firms which quickly announced their withdrawal from Russia actually had little revenue exposure to the country. Furthermore, we conduct a Twitter-based test of the virality of boycott campaigns and examine their relationship with managers’ decision to take positive action in supporting Ukraine and exiting Russia. Our analysis shows that the decision to withdraw from Russia is significantly positively associated with boycott campaigns. Finally, our research underscores important differences across market sizes. The smallest companies in our sample (mid-cap companies) are on average the most exposed to the Russian economy, whereas the Twitter boycott campaigns concentrated markedly on bigger firms (large and mega-cap firms).

Overall, the evidence presented in this paper suggests that corporate leaders tend to promote stakeholder interests when they face potential reputational damage that could affect shareholder wealth, or when it represents a good marketing move, so called “woke-washing”. The analysis also supports and reinforces the view that pressure from stakeholders – magnified by the use of social media – can successfully influence the corporate decision to pursue certain social goals and not only profits. However, our results highlight how size matters in the stakeholder capitalism debate. Stakeholder pressure on management can be an important and effective factor in achieving a socially desirable outcome, but it tends to focus on large, high-profile companies, while other market participants are left free to operate without this meaningful managerial constraint.

Keywords: Stakeholder Capitalism, Corporate Governance, Sanctions, Boycott, Russia, Ukraine, Social Media

JEL Classification: D22, D62, F51, G34, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Pajuste, Anete and Toniolo, Anna, Corporate Response to the War in Ukraine: Stakeholder Governance or Stakeholder Pressure? (August 1, 2022). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 839/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4183604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4183604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
9 B. Current Status of the Debate
26 2. Different "Justifications"
A Risks Of
Woke-Washing
E
Load more
14 Citations
Iryna Reshetnikova , Katarzyna Sanak-Kosmowska , Jan W. Wiktor
Differentiation of Polish and Ukrainian consumers' attitudes to Russian brands and international brands remaining on the Russian market
Central European Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 152 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Joseph J. French , Constantin Gurdgiev , Seungho Shin
When doing the right thing doesn't pay: Impact of corporate decisions on Russian market participation in the wake of the Ukraine-Russia war
Finance Research Letters , volume 58 , p. 104468 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Chiara Valentini , Hui Zhao , Juha Munnukka
The ‘Good Samaritan’: The effects of corporate conflict engagement on public satisfaction and their behavioral intentions
Public Relations Review , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 102607 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Shankar Ganesan , Girish Mallapragada
Navigating Geopolitical Turmoil: Corporate Responses to the War in Ukraine and Its Impact on Consumer Mindset
Journal of Public Policy & Marketing , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 122 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,226
RANK
38,116
14 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies