Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of Corporate Social Responsibility Under Asymmetric Information

Posted: 10 Aug 2022

Xiaomeng Guo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies

Guang Xiao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies

Fuqiang Zhang

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: August 7, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the interaction between a firm and its consumers under the consideration of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The firm can choose to be either socially responsible or irresponsible; however, the consumers cannot observe the firm's exact CSR type. The firm can signal its chosen CSR type through price and a third-party certification. We highlight the following main findings. First, due to the existence of asymmetric information, increasing consumer awareness of CSR may not necessarily benefit a firm with responsible behaviors. Specifically, as more consumers become socially concerned or as they have stronger willingness to reward (punish) the responsible (irresponsible) firm, the responsible firm could be worse off, whereas the irresponsible firm could be better off. Second, if the CSR type can only be signaled through price alone, then being responsible is always less profitable and a profit-oriented firm has no incentive to adopt CSR. By contrast, combining price signal with a reasonably accurate certification could incentivize the profit-maximizing firm to engage in CSR when the fraction of socially responsible consumers in the market is high. Finally, we further study the impact of certification accuracy on the firm's profit and its social welfare implication. Our results suggest that addressing the information asymmetry issue is the key to aligning consumers' goodwill with firms' responsible behaviors. In particular, concerned parties should first exert efforts to create transparency in firms' sustainability practices before making investments to educate consumers and influence their purchasing behaviors.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, information asymmetry, price signaling, certification, consumer behavior

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Xiaomeng and Xiao, Guang and Zhang, Fuqiang, Adoption of Corporate Social Responsibility Under Asymmetric Information (August 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4183807
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies