Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Shortfalls in IPO Firms

15 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2022

Lei Liu

Jinling Institute of Technology

Gady Jacoby

College of Management Academic Studies; Seton Hall University; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Xiaoping Song

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Steven Xiaofan Zheng

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Abstract

We find that most IPO firms will run out of cash soon if they did not receive proceeds from IPOs, suggesting that cash shortage may be one of the most important motives for IPOs. The cash shortfalls persist during the 5 years after IPO. Firms with more initial cash shortfalls also have lower net cash flows in the next 5 years but are not valued lower in the IPO year. Consistent with over-optimism, firms with more initial cash shortfalls tend to have lower long run stock returns while IPO firms with no cash shortfalls do not underperform the benchmarks.

Keywords: cash shortfalls, IPO, Cash flows, Valuation, long run stock return

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Lei and Jacoby, Gady and Jacoby, Gady and Song, Xiaoping and Zheng, Steven Xiaofan, Cash Shortfalls in IPO Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4183186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Bodnaruk , E Kandel , M Massa , A Simonov
Shareholder diversification and the decision to go public
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 2779 - 2824 Posted: 2008
J C Brau , S E Fawcett
Initial public offerings: An analysis of theory and practice
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 399 - 436 Posted: 2006
U Celikyurt , M Sevilir , A Shivdasani
Going public to acquire? The acquisition motive in IPOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , p. 345 - 363 Posted: 2010
T J Chemmanur , S He , D K Nandy
The Going-Public Decision and the Product Market
The Review of financial studies , volume 23 , p. 1855 - 1908 Posted: 2010
Load more
2 Citations
Huijing Li , Danjue Clancey-Shang , Chengbo Fu , Tianze Li
Does the World Need More Traditional Energy? A Comparative Analysis of ESG Activities, Free Cash Flow, and Capital Market Implications
FINANA-D-24-01473 · 39 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 18
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wenjun Wang
Blue Sky Protection and Corporate Financing Decisions --Evidence from Ultra-low Emission Standards Policy
48 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
791,953
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies