Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have the Chinese National Oil Companies Paid Too Much in Overseas Asset Acquisition?

39 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Xiaoyi Mu

University of Dundee

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper provides both a quantitative and qualitative analysis of whether the Chinese oil companies have “overpaid” than international counterparts in overseas asset acquisitions. Using a difference-in-difference and hedonic pricing framework, we find that while the Chinese companies did not pay more than international oil companies for the period of 2001-2008, there is statistically significant evidence that they overpaid during the 2009-2016 period. A counterfactual analysis was conducted to quantify the extent of the overpayment. Interviews and qualitative analysis suggest that the overpayment mainly results from lack of experience and rush for projects in a period of high oil prices rather than concerns about energy security or other political considerations. The results raise concerns over the efficiency and corporate governance of Chinese state-owned companies, pointing to the need for further reforms.

Keywords: China, National Oil Companies, reserve valuation, Hotelling valuation principle, asset acquisition, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Mu, Xiaoyi, Have the Chinese National Oil Companies Paid Too Much in Overseas Asset Acquisition?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4184156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4184156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M A Adelman , M F Koehn , H De Silva
The Valuation of Oil Reserves
SPE Hydrocarbon Economics and Evaluation Symposium, 9-10 March Posted: 1989-01-01
M A Adelman , G Campbell Watkins
U.S. Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Prices
Energy Economics , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 553 - 571 Posted: 1982
Ron Alquist , Lutz Kilian
What Do We Learn from the Price of Crude Oil Futures?
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 573 Posted: 2012
Philip Andrews-Speed
When will China's national oil companies rationalise their overseas investment portfolios Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
279
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Trade eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies