Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Breadth of Ownership and Corporate Earnings Management

26 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Guangyuan Ma

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yekun Xu

Liaoning University

Limin Zhang

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between the breadth of ownership and corporate earnings management. We find that the breadth of ownership is associated with a reduction in earnings management. And the negative association is significant for firms with more individual investors, in contrast, firms with more institutional investors are involved with more earnings management, these results are more pronounced for firms with non-Big 4 auditors and low analyst coverage.  Our paper also provides empirical evidence that stock liquidity and investors’ clique are two important underlying channels through which the breadth of ownership impacts earnings management.

Keywords: Breadth of ownership, earnings management, Institutional investors, Individual investors

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Guangyuan and Xu, Yekun and Zhang, Limin, The Breadth of Ownership and Corporate Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4184506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
B Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor competition over information and the pricing of information asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2012
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
S Balsam , E Bartov , C Marquardt
Accruals management, investor sophistication, and equity valuation: Evidence from 10-Q filings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 987 - 1012 Posted: 2002
D Benoit , K Grind
Activist investors' secret ally: Big mutual funds
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
RANK
649,230
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies