Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mutual Fund Ownership Increase Corporate Environmental Spending?

35 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2022

John Ashton

University of York

Yang Wang

University of Dundee

Yifei Zhang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Abstract

Using a unique hand collected dataset and applying an institutional theoretical framework, we examine how mutual fund ownership influences environmental spending by Chinese listed companies between 2011 and 2018. We report mutual fund investment is associated with significantly increased corporate environmental spending. This influence is most pronounced in state-owned enterprises and for firms located in regions with stronger legal environments. We report the environmental sentiment of investors affects firm’s environmental spending. The results indicate mutual funds act as ethical investors. These investors can play an important policy role in raising the corporate environmental spending of the firms they invest in.

Keywords: mutual fund, Environmental spending, State-owned enterprises, Institutional Investment, Chinese financial markets

Suggested Citation:

Ashton, John and Wang, Yang and Zhang, Yifei, Does Mutual Fund Ownership Increase Corporate Environmental Spending?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4185268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M A Abebe , K Acharya
Founder CEOs and corporate environmental violations: Evidence from S&P 1500 firms
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1204 - 1219 Posted: 2022
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R Aggarwal , M Hu , J Yang
Fraud, market reaction, and the role of institutional investors in Chinese listed firms
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 92 - 109 Posted: 2015
M Alda
Corporate sustainability and institutional shareholders: The pressure of social responsible pension funds on environmental firm practices
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 28 , p. 1060 - 1071 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
RANK
478,373
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies