Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Boss Behind the Scenes: Nonfamily Leadership and Earnings Management

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

57 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2022

Fuxiu Jiang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Xinni Cai

University of International Business and Economics - Business School

Xiaojia Zheng

University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: August 10, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of nonfamily leadership in family firms, whereby family members do not act as either a board chair or a CEO, on corporate earnings management. We find that firms with nonfamily leadership conduct significantly more earnings management than firms with family leadership, although this effect can be alleviated by more effective internal control and a stronger reputation concern. Additional analyses show that the increased related-party transactions can be one mechanism through which the nonfamily leadership increases earnings management. We further find that nonfamily leaders in family firms are on average weaker but receive higher (excess) payment than their peers in nonfamily firms, all consistent with the role of the nonfamily member as a marionette for the family’s misbehaviors. Moreover, earnings management increases with the degree of family noninvolvement and is mainly driven by nonfamily chairs rather than the CEOs. Overall, our paper suggests that not having a family leader aggravates incentives for the controlling family to manage earnings to realize private benefits.

Keywords: Family firms, nonfamily leadership, family involvement, earnings management, reputation concern

JEL Classification: G34, M51, M40

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Fuxiu and Cai, Xinni and Zheng, Xiaojia, The Boss Behind the Scenes: Nonfamily Leadership and Earnings Management (August 10, 2022). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4186517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A K Achleitner , N Günther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real earnings management and accrual-based earnings management in family firms
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
R Amit , Y Ding , B Villalonga , H Zhang
The role of institutional development in the prevalence and performance of entrepreneur and family-controlled firms
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 284 - 305 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
481,162
3 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies