Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Energy Depends on Critical Minerals. Who Controls the Supply Chains?

Peterson Institute for International Economics Working Paper No. 22-12

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 846/2022

35 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022 Last revised: 23 Jan 2023

Luc Leruth

Tbilisi State University (TSU) - International School of Economics (ISET)

Adnan Mazarei

Peterson Institute for International Economics

Pierre Regibeau

European Union - European Commission

Luc Renneboog

Tilburg University - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 9, 2022

Abstract

In light of the transition away from fossil fuel–based energy, this paper highlights the importance of understanding who controls vital parts of the global supply chains of critical minerals and rare earth elements (REEs). Analysis of direct ownership does not reveal the real sources of control over the decisions of the company. To identify those sources, the authors use an index that measures the degree to which important shareholders can affect voting decisions. This analysis is not straightforward, because companies along the supply chain are not necessarily incorporated in the countries in which mining and production activities take place, and shareholders can exert influence through multiple layers of subsidiaries. The analysis reveals that China’s control over the global value chains involving critical minerals and REEs extends beyond what is commonly assumed. It also sheds light on environmental, social, and governance issues in the countries in which mining and/or production take place. The paper advocates increasing transparency regarding the sources of control to better assess and manage economic and geopolitical risks; enhancing recycling, to reduce dependency on foreign supply; avoiding protectionist and trade-reducing reactions; and encouraging research and development in order to speed up the adoption of technologies of substitution.

Keywords: Ownership, voting power, corporate social responsibility, ESG, supply chain, recycling, rare earth elements, critical minerals, geopolitics

JEL Classification: G3, L1, L7, Q3, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Leruth, Luc and Mazarei, Adnan and Regibeau, Pierre and Renneboog, Luc, Green Energy Depends on Critical Minerals. Who Controls the Supply Chains? (August 9, 2022). Peterson Institute for International Economics Working Paper No. 22-12, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 846/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4186135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4186135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Ian Appel , Todd A Gormley , Donald B Keim
Passive Investors, Not Passive Owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
John F Banzhaf , Iii
Weighted Voting Doesn't Work: A Mathematical Analysis
Rutgers Law Review , volume 19 , p. 317 - 343 Posted: 1965
John F Banzhaf , Iii
One Man-2,312 Votes: A Mathematical Analysis of the Electoral College
Villanueva Law Review , volume 13 , p. 304 - 332 Posted: 1968
Tamas Barko , Martijn Cremers , Luc Renneboog
Shareholder Engagement on Environmental, Social, and Governance Performance
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
193,883
10 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies