Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Appendix to: The Cost of Misaligned Incentives: Evidence From the Funding Sources and Real Effects of Tax-Motivated Dividends

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-20

16 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2022 Last revised: 18 Dec 2024

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 17, 2024

Abstract

Online appendix to The Cost of Misaligned Incentives: Evidence from the Funding Sources and Real Effects of Tax-Motivated Dividends https://ssrn.com/abstract=3541067.

Keywords: Investment, Agency Costs, Tax-Sensitivity, Dividend Payout Policy, Institutional Ownership, Shareholder-Level Taxes, JGTRRA, ATRA

JEL Classification: G35, H24, H32

Suggested Citation:

John, Kose and Krupa, Trent and Utke, Steven, Online Appendix to: The Cost of Misaligned Incentives: Evidence From the Funding Sources and Real Effects of Tax-Motivated Dividends (December 17, 2024). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4186971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4186971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
798,750
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies