Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitudes Towards Business and Corporate Governance

Forthcoming in the Journal of Corporate Finance

56 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2022

Vladimir A. Gatchev

University of Central Florida - Department of Finance

Christo A. Pirinsky

University of Central Florida

Mengxin Zhao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: August 9, 2022

Abstract

Attitudes towards business vary significantly across political lines, religious denominations, and ethnic groups. We utilize this variation to construct a measure of local business attitudes and show that firms in areas with stronger probusiness attitudes are less likely to incorporate in Delaware and adopt more management-friendly provisions in their corporate bylaws. These findings are further supported by an instrumental variable estimation utilizing data on immigration at the turn of the 19th century. The overall findings indicate that firms in probusiness areas are less likely to provide unconditional protection of their managers through incorporation in Delaware. Instead, they tend to provide protection through more flexible means, such as corporate bylaws.

Keywords: Firm incorporation, corporate governance, firm bylaws, business attitudes

JEL Classification: G30, J10, M14, R21, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Gatchev, Vladimir A. and Pirinsky, Christo Angelov and Zhao, Mengxin, Attitudes Towards Business and Corporate Governance (August 9, 2022). Forthcoming in the Journal of Corporate Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4186212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4186212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
B Adhikari , D Cicero , J Sulaeman
Does Local Capital Supply Matter for Public Firms' Capital Structures?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 1809 - 1843 Posted: 2021
G Akerlof
The Missing Motivation in Macroeconomics
American Economic Review , volume 97 , p. 5 - 36 Posted: 2007
L Bebchuk , A Cohen
Firms' Decisions Where to Incorporate
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , p. 383 - 425 Posted: 2003
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies