Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Intangible Assets’ Mobility on Intangibles Location and Income Shifting: Trademarks vs. Patents

41 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2022 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Cinthia Valle Ruiz

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Date Written: March 8, 2024

Abstract

Despite multilateral efforts to combat profit shifting, recent literature finds that firms with higher ratios of intangible assets shift more income. Prior research primarily focuses on the role of patents and R&D expenditures due to data availability, which could distort estimates of the role of IP in income shifting if patenting firms exhibit a different propensity to shift income than firms with other types of IP. We estimate a mixed logit model and find that trademarks’ tax elasticities are larger than those for patents, leading to greater income shifting. We further provide evidence that agglomeration effects reduce the tax elasticity of patents, which aligns with theory that trademarks can be more mobile than patents. Country-level policies that do not allow the separation of legal versus economic ownership exacerbate these effects. We suggest that policy makers and local tax administrations could curb profit shifting by devoting more attention and resources to the role of trademarks.

Keywords: intangible assets, patents, trademarks, tax planning, income shifting

JEL Classification: H25, F23, H26, H3

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Valle Ruiz, Cinthia and Voget, Johannes, The Impact of Intangible Assets’ Mobility on Intangibles Location and Income Shifting: Trademarks vs. Patents (March 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4188135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
U Akcigit , J Grigsby , T Nicholas , S Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century Posted: 2018
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
S Berry , J Levinsohn , A Pakes
Differentiated products demand systems from combination of micro and macro data: the new car market
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 105 Posted: 2004
T Bornemann , S O Kelley Laplante , B Osswald
The effect of intellectual property boxes on innovative activity and tax benefits
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
291,202
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies