Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Banks Care about the Environment? Estimating the Greenium and Implications for Bank Lending

36 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022

Stefan Walz

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: August 12, 2022

Abstract

In this paper I study the role of banks in financing the transition to a cleaner economy. I find that as firms become more ESG-focused they increase their use of bond financing relative to bank borrowing. I match newly originated loans to existing bonds to show that the loan-bond spread increases in the ESG score of the firm, supporting a cost of capital discount channel. The information insensitivity of bank deposits rationalizes the main result, as stronger ESG preferences are passed through to a lower cost of capital for bonds relative to loans. Using the ESG premium implied by bond markets as a benchmark, I study the implications for lending volumes if policymakers force banks to internalize non-pecuniary green preferences.

Keywords: Banks, Capital Structure, ESG

JEL Classification: G21, G32, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Walz, Stefan, Do Banks Care about the Environment? Estimating the Greenium and Implications for Bank Lending (August 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4188847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Berg
I match loans to the firm-level panel of financial statement data from Compustat and ESG score data from Refinitiv. Next, I match the dataset to secondary market bond yields by the same firm. I include only loan facilities where LIBOR is the base rate. I calculate the loan rate as the all-in-spread plus LIBOR. In Table 4 I show the summary statistics of the complete matched sample. Table 4 Loan-Bond Matched Year N(L) N(B) Av(L Rate) Av(B Rate) Av(L) Av(B) Av(L Mat) Av(B Mat) , volume 66 Posted: 2011
Malcolm Baker , Daniel Bergstresser , George Serafeim , Jeffrey Wurgler
Financing the response to climate change: The pricing and ownership of u.s. green bonds, Working Paper 25194 Posted: 2018
J Begenau , Landvoigt
Financial Regulation in a Quantitative Model of the Modern Banking System, The Review of Economic Studies rdab088 Posted: 2021
Florian Berg , Julian F Kolbel , Anna Pavlova , Roberto Rigobon
Esg confusion and stock returns: Tackling the problem of noise
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Olivier Darmouni , Yuqi Zhang
Brown Capital (Re)Allocation
101 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 26 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 527
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
RANK
240,099
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies