Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Critical Audit Matters Provide Decision-Relevant Information to Investors? Evidence from Merger and Acquisition Announcements

52 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2022 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 11, 2022

Abstract

PCAOB AS 3101 requires the auditor to communicate in the audit report any critical audit matters (CAMs) identified during the planning or performance of the audit. Prior research has investigated the informativeness of CAM disclosures using short-window, event study methodologies centered around the initial CAM disclosure in the 10-K and finds minimal evidence that CAMs affect investors’ decisions. We depart from the extant research to investigate whether and to what extent a specific CAM – the business combination CAM – influences investors’ perceptions of mergers and acquisition news. We predict and find that investors react more negatively to merger and acquisition announcements when the audit report preceding the announcement contains a business combination CAM. The negative reaction is attenuated for firms with enhanced information environments and magnified when the CAM contains more words. Our results suggest that business combination CAMs provide decision-relevant information to investors about acquisition-related risks.

Keywords: PCAOB, Critical Audit Matters, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Buslepp, William L., Do Critical Audit Matters Provide Decision-Relevant Information to Investors? Evidence from Merger and Acquisition Announcements (August 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4188255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
P Asquith , R F Bruner , D W Mullins
The gains to bidding firms from merger
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 11 , issue 1-4 , p. 121 - 139 Posted: 1983
P Asquith , R F Bruner , D W Mullins
Merger returns and the form of financing. Unpublished manuscript Posted: 1987
R K Atiase
Pre-disclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
L S Bamber
Unexpected earnings, firm size, and trading volume around quarterly earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 510 - 532 Posted: 1987
Load more
3 Citations
Daniel P. Lynch , Aaron Mandell , Linette M. Rousseau
The consequences of expanded audit reporting: implications of tax key audit matters for tax attribute valuation and auditor-provided tax services
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jessica A. Nylen , Daniel D. Wangerin , Karla M. Zehms
Do key audit matter disclosures about M&A transactions predict future performance?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 2264 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Katharine D. Drake , Nathan C. Goldman , Stephen J. Lusch , Jaime J. Schmidt
Disclosure of tax‐related critical audit matters and tax‐related outcomes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 719 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,436
RANK
198,235
3 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies