Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Ratings and Capital Structure: New Evidence from Overconfident CFOS

54 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2022 Last revised: 30 Nov 2022

Shee-Yee Khoo

Bangor Business School, Bangor University

Huong

University of Aberdeen

Panagiotis Andrikopoulos

Coventry University

Patrycja Klusak

Norwich Business School; Bennett Institute for Public Policy, University of Cambridge

Date Written: 28/11/2022

Abstract

We investigate the impact of credit rating changes on the financing decisions of overconfident CFOs. We find that CFO overconfidence significantly increases the sensitivity of net debt issuances to the rating changes, particularly when firms have no access to low-risk debt. Specifically, we establish that speculative-grade firms with overconfident CFOs reduce net debt issuance following rating changes (i.e. upgrades and downgrades). Our results hold after controlling for CEO bias. Furthermore, we document that CEO overconfidence has explanatory power on firm financing policies as it generates the potential multiplier effect on debt conservatism, as well as on investment return.

Keywords: credit ratings, corporate finance, capital structure, behavioural finance, CEO overconfidence, CFO overconfidence

Suggested Citation:

Khoo, Shee-Yee and Vu, Huong and Andrikopoulos, Panagiotis and Klusak, Patrycja and Klusak, Patrycja, Credit Ratings and Capital Structure: New Evidence from Overconfident CFOS (28/11/2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4188479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M Agha , R Faff
An investigation of the asymmetric link between credit re-ratings and corporate financial decisions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 29 , p. 37 - 57 Posted: 2014
N Aktas , C Louca , D Petmezas
CEO overconfidence and the value of corporate cash holdings
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 54 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 2019
A J Bahns , C S Crandall , O Gillath , K J Preacher
Similarity in relationships as niche construction: Choice, stability, and influence within dyads in a free choice environment
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 112 , p. 329 - 355 Posted: 2017
S Banerjee , L Dai , M Humphery-Jenner , V Nanda
Governance, board inattention, and the appointment of overconfident CEOs
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 113 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
328,615
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies