Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Sensitive Institutional Investors and the Design of CEO Compensation Packages

42 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2022 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Ariela Caglio

SDA Bocconi; Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Claudia Imperatore

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Cinthia Valle Ruiz

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Date Written: March 17, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates how firms balance the heterogeneous tax preferences of institutional investors through the design of executive compensation. Specifically, we analyze how the weight of stock options in CEO compensation packages varies with the presence of tax-sensitive institutional investors (TSII) in the firms’ institutional ownership base. TSII have a tax-driven aversion to dividend payouts, which contrasts with demand for dividends from other institutional owners. As a result, when TSII are present in the institutional ownership base, conflicts among institutional owners can arise, weakening their monitoring of managers. We contend, and find, that the co-existence of TSII’s tax-related payout preferences and conflicts among institutional owners leads to a non-monotonic relationship between the relative ownership of TSII and the weight of stock options. When TSII are not the prevailing institutional owners, firms include fewer stock options that incentivize managers to distribute dividends, thus reducing potential agency problems. As TSIIs become the prevailing type of institutional investor, the weight of stock options in CEO compensation is higher to discourage dividend payouts and satisfy TSII’s tax-related payout preferences. We document that this relationship is stronger when CEOs have stronger incentives to distribute dividends and the need for aligning the interests of managers and shareholders is higher. Above all, we find that the increased weight of stock options in CEO compensation when TSII are the prevailing institutional investors is associated with a lower dividend payouts, but it does not lead to sub-optimal investment choices. Our findings underscore the importance of shareholders’ tax preferences in corporate decisions and executive compensation.

Keywords: Tax sensitive institutional investors, shareholder taxes, executives’ compensation packages, stock options, dividend payout

JEL Classification: G35, H24.

Suggested Citation:

Caglio, Ariela and Caglio, Ariela and Imperatore, Claudia and Valle Ruiz, Cinthia, Tax-Sensitive Institutional Investors and the Design of CEO Compensation Packages (March 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4188982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: The role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 216 - 251 Posted: 2008
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
D Amiram , A M Bauer , M M Frank
Tax avoidance at public corporations driven by shareholder taxes: Evidence from changes in dividend tax policy
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
737
RANK
511,510
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies