Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual effects and complementarities-in-performance: The long-run impacts of CSR on an acquirer’s performance in cross-border mergers

86 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2022

Md Shahiduzzaman

University of Queensland Brisbane; University of New England

Date Written: August 14, 2022

Abstract

Do an acquirer’s CSR scores impact its post-merger performance in the short and long run? How do relationships among individual CSR pillars affect merger performance? Analysing a global sample of cross-border merger data from 2002 to 2018, we find positive and significant effects of overall CSR, the environmental pillar, and the social pillar on changes in ROA and Tobin’s Q of acquirers during the three years following acquisitions. Furthermore, the governance pillar only impacts short-run ROA change. We found complementarities among the three pillars of CSR to attain performance synergy. The effects of CSR controversies are long-lasting and appear to affect both the operating performance and market value of acquiring firms negatively. Finally, the effects of CSR on post-merger performance are more profound in the long run. CSR has a much larger economic impact on post-merger market value than on the operating performance of acquirers.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Environmental Pillar; Social Pillar; Governance Pillar; Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions; Complementarities in Performance

JEL Classification: F23; G11; G34

Suggested Citation:

Shahiduzzaman, Md, Individual effects and complementarities-in-performance: The long-run impacts of CSR on an acquirer’s performance in cross-border mergers (August 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4189869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4189869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
S Adra , L G Barbopoulos , A Saunders
The impact of monetary policy on M&A outcomes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
N Aktas , E De Bodt , J G Cousin
Do financial markets care about SRI? Evidence from mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , p. 1753 - 1761 Posted: 2011
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
658,366
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies