Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Monitoring Mechanisms and Corporate Environmental and Social Performance

21 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2022

Namgyoung Lee

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Seung Hun Han

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) - Department of Management Science

Date Written: August 14, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the effect of internal monitoring mechanisms on a firm’s environmental and social (ES) performance level, in emerging markets of Korea which has a chaebol-centric governance system. We find a positive relationship between institutional investor holdings, especially pension investors, and corporate ES level. Outside directors also influence firm’s ES performance in a positive direction. The results are significant and consistent in difference in difference analysis, propensity score matching method, and robustness test. These findings suggest that internal monitoring mechanism can help mitigate the agency problem in firms that are likely to be exposed to the higher level of agency issue, such as firms in emerging market.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, ESG, Institutional Investors, Outside Directors, Korea

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Namgyoung and Han, Seung Hun, Internal Monitoring Mechanisms and Corporate Environmental and Social Performance (August 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4189800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4189800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanisms to Control Agency Problems between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
H K Baker , A D , J Rasbrant
Investors and Dividend Yields
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 76 , p. 386 - 395 Posted: 2020
M J Barclay , C G Holderness
Private Benefits from Control of Public Corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1989
W G Blacconiere , D M Patten
Environmental Disclosures, Regulatory Costs, and Changes in Firm Value
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 357 - 377 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
672,649
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies