Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Perceptions and Corporate Financing Behavior

66 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Youngmin Choi

Xavier University - Williams College of Business

Armen Hovakimian

Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business

Joonsung Won

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Date Written: December 15, 2022

Abstract

Using a recently developed measure of financial market risk perceptions, we show that risk perceptions affect firm-level corporate financing behavior. Firms tend to adjust their capital structures to cater to investors’ appetite for risk. When perceived risks are low, firms tend to choose more leveraged capital structures to take advantage of higher valuations associated with higher risk exposure. When perceived risks are high, firms tend to deleverage to avoid undervaluation associated with higher risk exposure. Furthermore, in periods of low risk perceptions, bond issue announcement returns tend to be higher, whereas long-run returns tend to decline with leverage.

Keywords: Risk perception, Corporate financing, Capital structure, Leverage, Catering

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Youngmin and Hovakimian, Armen and Won, Joonsung, Risk Perceptions and Corporate Financing Behavior (December 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4190475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4190475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Constantinos ; Antoniou , John A Doukas , Avanidhar Subrahmanyam
Investor sentiment, beta, and the cost of equity capital
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 367 Posted: 2016
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
Market timing and capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,926
RANK
185,154
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies