Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Latest Development of the Independent Director System of Listed Companies in Japan and China

13 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022

Rongjie Fang

University of Tokyo - University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Public Policy

Zeng Bin

China University of Political Science and Law

Date Written: August 16, 2022

Abstract

This article looks at the independence, current rules, functions and ways of performing duties, supporting mechanisms, liabilities and exemptions, and assessment of the effectiveness of the independent directors in China and Japan. It presents the similarities and differences between the two countries. In general, the requirements for independent directors in Japan are more autonomous and emphasize communication between independent directors and investors and stakeholders of listed companies, and the requirements are more detailed and complex. In contrast, China's system is more mandatory, and independent directors mainly play an advisory and supervisory role for listed companies, with relatively more macro and less detailed descriptions of independence and the way they perform their duties. At the same time, both countries have encountered certain obstacles in the development of their independent directors system, and more empirical research on their effectiveness is still needed.

Keywords: Independent Director, Corporate Governance, Japan, China

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Rongjie and Bin, Zeng, Latest Development of the Independent Director System of Listed Companies in Japan and China (August 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4190713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4190713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
RANK
511,510
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies