Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Importance of Information Governance & Implementation in Banking Industry

27 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2022

Priya Parameswarappa

University of the Cumberlands

Date Written: August 15, 2022

Abstract

Banking industry must preserve and way to protect data, and so it wants to find a plan to resolve these concerns. The project document in this contains information on the development of such information governance scheme in resolving issues, as well as the key parameters used to ensure compliance with in banking and financial sector industry. It really is critical for the Chief Information Governance Officer to analyze the actual infrastructure within organization besides having to involve members of the board from a different team. Hire professionals in each platform to evaluate different performance measures but also formulate strategies before giving suggestions. It recognizes the data needed for various roles within the company, as well as the methodologies used to make sure that the information is accessible. This also recognizes the banking industry's compliance issues regarding security and privacy. The document's communication management plan specifics how banking utilizes social media platforms to market services to customers. This study outlines alternative techniques, communication plans, and an information governance plan for complying with regulations across all industries.

Keywords: Information governance, Banking industry

Suggested Citation:

Parameswarappa, Priya, Importance of Information Governance & Implementation in Banking Industry (August 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4190576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4190576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A A Abu-Musa
Exploring information technology governance (ITG) in developing countries: an empirical study
The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 13 , p. 71 - 117 Posted: 2007
S Bauer , E W Bernroider , K Chudzikowski
Prevention is better than cure! Designing information security awareness programs to overcome users' non-compliance with information security policies in banks
Computers & Security , volume 68 , p. 145 - 159 Posted: 2017
C W Calomiris
Chartering the FinTech future
Cato J , volume 41 Posted: 2021
F De Abreu Faria , A C G Maçada , K Kumar
Information governance in the banking industry
2013 46th hawaii international conference on system sciences , p. 4436 - 4445 Posted: 2013-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
190,939
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies