Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Innate Altruism and Firm Corporate Social Responsibility

58 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022

Miriam Marra

University of Reading - ICMA Centre, Henley Business School

Jing Ruan

ICMA centre, University of Reading

Lisa Schopohl

ICMA Centre, Henley Business School, University of Reading

Chao Yin

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: August 16, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the role of CEO’s innate altruism in explaining firm corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance by studying a sample of U.S. firms that are S&P 1500 components over the period 1997-2018. Building on the literature that highlights the importance of cultural heritage in shaping individuals’ beliefs and values, we measure CEOs’ innate altruism using the preference scores from the Global Preference Survey (GPS) associated with the CEOs’ countries of origins. We find that firms led by more altruistic CEOs have stronger CSR performance. This result remains robust to controlling for a variety of firm attributes (financials and corporate governance controls) and CEOs’ individual characteristics (such as age, gender, tenure), as well as to a battery of robustness checks and endogeneity tests, including propensity score matching and difference-in-difference regressions around exogenous CEO turnover events. We also find that the link between CEO altruism and CSR is stronger in well-governed firms where the CEO is not overly powerful. In addition, firms with more altruistic CEOs do not show worse financial performance, suggesting that altruism, as an innate trait of CEOs, is not value-destroying for shareholders.

Keywords: CSR, Cultural Heritage, CEO Altruism, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M12, M14

Suggested Citation:

Marra, Miriam and Ruan, Jing and Schopohl, Lisa and Yin, Chao, CEO Innate Altruism and Firm Corporate Social Responsibility (August 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4191624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4191624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
M Al-Shammari , A Rasheed , H A Al-Shammari
CEO narcissism and corporate social responsibility: does CEO narcissism affect CSR focus
Journal of Business Research , volume 104 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2019
Y Algan , P Cahuc
Inherited trust and growth
American Economic Review , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 2060 - 2092 Posted: 2010
J Andreoni
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: A theory of warm-glow giving
Economic Journal , volume 100 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
K Andrews
The concept of corporate strategy Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
RANK
303,587
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies