Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Employees as Information Intermediaries: Evidence from Their Professional Connections

51 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022 Last revised: 27 Oct 2024

DuckKi Cho

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Lyungmae Choi

The University of Newcastle

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates whether employees and their professional networks act as information intermediaries. We find that firms with more-connected employees experience smaller market reactions to earnings surprises, and these results are not due to reverse causality or information inflows. Further analyses show that employees primarily disseminate private information about positive earnings news and the firm-specific component of earnings news, and are driven largely by the connections of mid-level managers. Consistent with social networking theory, the associations are stronger for weaker professional connections. Supporting employees’ role as information intermediaries, we find that the stock prices of more-connected firms incorporate information about forthcoming earnings more quickly, have more informative retail order imbalances, and exhibit lower post-earnings announcement drift. Overall, our results suggest that more-connected firms have more efficient stock prices due to employees and their professional networks acting as information intermediaries.

JEL Classification: G12, G14, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cho, DuckKi and Choi, Lyungmae and Hillegeist, Stephen A., The Role of Employees as Information Intermediaries: Evidence from Their Professional Connections (October 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4192330 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4192330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
K R Ahern
Information networks: Evidence from illegal insider trading tips
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 125 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 47 Posted: 2017
F Akbas , F Meschke , M B Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
I Babenko , R Sen
Do nonexecutive employees have valuable information? Evidence from employee stock purchase plans
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 7 , p. 1878 - 1898 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,896
RANK
206,108
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies