Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Debt and Taxes

Annual Review of Financial Economics, Vol. 14, November 2022

41 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022 Last revised: 6 Jan 2023

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 12, 2022

Abstract

We provide updates to and perspectives on the enduring topic of debt and taxes. The recent decade brought us new empirical strategies, accounting rules, and tax laws. We discuss how these and other developments change our understanding of leverage and taxes. Overall, tax incentives still do not seem to have a consistent, first-order effect on corporate capital structure. This presents a puzzle as governments increasingly limit interest deductibility, citing its contribution to overleverage and distress. We discuss critical empirical challenges such as measurement, highlight issues surrounding assumptions about tax rates and real-world financing decisions, and offer insights and direction for future research. We conclude that rather than asking if taxes are a first-order driver of corporate capital structure, a more productive goal is a greater understanding of when tax incentives yield material effects on corporate capital structure.

Keywords: financial policy, capital structure, leverage, corporate tax, tax policy

JEL Classification: G32, G33, G18, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Heitzman, Shane, Corporate Debt and Taxes (August 12, 2022). Annual Review of Financial Economics, Vol. 14, November 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4193183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
A Admati , P Demarzo , M Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
The leverage ratchet effect
Journal of Finance , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
S Alberternst , C Sureth
The effect of taxes on corporate financing decisions: Evidence from the German Interest Barrier Posted: 2015
S Albring
The effects of the cost of foreign internal funds on the probability that a firm issues domestic debt
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 28 , p. 25 - 41 Posted: 2006
R Altshuler , A Auerbach
The significance of tax law asymmetries: An empirical investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
194,508
1 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies