Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO narcissism, brand acquisition and disposal, and stock returns

Cao, Z., & Xu, K. (2022). CEO narcissism, brand acquisition and disposal, and stock returns. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 1-23.

33 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022

Zixia (Summer) Cao

University of Colorado Denver

Kehan Xu

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

Chief executive officer (CEO) narcissism is an ingrained personality trait referring to the degree to which an individual CEO has an inflated level of self-admiration and seeks to gain attention and social praise by pursuing vanity-driven strategic objectives. We find evidence that narcissistic CEOs are less likely to dispose of brands but more likely to acquire brands than their less narcissistic counterparts. Further, narcissistic CEOs are more likely than their counterparts to lead their companies to acquire high-awareness brands and more likely to dispose of low-awareness brands. We also propose a moderated mediation model in which CEO narcissism increases target brand asset overvaluation, and through this mediator, CEO narcissism has a negative indirect impact on the acquirer’s abnormal returns but a positive indirect impact on the seller’s abnormal returns associated with the brand transactions. Brand awareness and perceived quality weaken the relationship between target brand asset overvaluation and abnormal returns.

Keywords: CEO narcissism . Brand acquisition . Brand disposal, Brand awareness, Perceived quality, Brand asset overvaluation, Abnormal returns

JEL Classification: M31

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Zixia and Xu, Kehan, CEO narcissism, brand acquisition and disposal, and stock returns (February 15, 2022). Cao, Z., & Xu, K. (2022). CEO narcissism, brand acquisition and disposal, and stock returns. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 1-23., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
T Aabo , M Als , L Thomsen , J N Wulff
Watch me go big: CEO narcissism and corporate acquisitions
Review of Behavioral Finance , volume 13 , p. 465 - 485 Posted: 2020
T Aabo , N B Eriksen
Corporate risk and the humpback of CEO narcissism
Review of Behavioral Finance , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 252 - 273 Posted: 2018
D A Aaker
Measuring brand equity across products and markets
California Management Review , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 102 - 120 Posted: 1996
D A Aaker , R Jacobson
The financial information content of perceived quality
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 201 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
658,366
1 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies