Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Loss Avoidance with Cooperatives: Is it Driven by Debt Financing Demands or Members’ Commitment?

25 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022

Jochen Bigus

Free University Berlin, Department Accounting and Finance

Aline Grahn

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

When a cooperative goes bankrupt, its members often lose more than their paid-in capital. Members might be subject to personal liability, and may lose other benefits tied to membership, such as employment, benefits as a consumer or supplier, or housing at a lower price. We find that cooperatives are more likely to avoid reporting small losses when the members are more committed to the cooperative when it is in financial distress, e.g., with members’ personal liability, with longer notice periods to return member shares, or with minimum holding periods for shares. If financial reporting were mainly targeted towards debt financing demands, we would have expected opposite results. We also find evidence that cooperatives with stronger member commitment are more likely to disclose small profits, and pass on more economic benefits to their members. Our study contributes to the literature by being the first to provide insights on cooperatives’ financial reporting choices and their drivers.

Keywords: cooperatives, small loss avoidance, member commitment, member liability

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bigus, Jochen and Grahn, Aline, Small Loss Avoidance with Cooperatives: Is it Driven by Debt Financing Demands or Members’ Commitment? (August 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4193653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Z Adams , S Deakin , J Michie , J R Blasi , C Borzaga
Enterprise form, participation, and performance in mutuals and cooperatives
The Oxford Handbook of Mutual , p. 290 - 311 Posted: 2017
S Bar-Yosef , D 'augusta , C Prencipe , A
Accounting research on private firms: State of the art and future directions
International Journal of Accounting , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 75 Posted: 2019
D Bernard , D Burgstahler , D Kaya
Size management by European private firms to minimize proprietary costs of disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 122 Posted: 2018
C Beuselinck , F Elfers , J Gassen , J Pierk
Private firm accounting: the European reporting environment, data and research perspectives Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
765,896
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies