Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wells Fargo: Did KPMG Perform Its Duties? An Auditing Case About Consumer Fraud

Feng, N. C., Fuerman, R. D., & Heron, N. (2022). Wells Fargo: Did KPMG perform its duties? An auditing case about consumer fraud. Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(2), 121–126. https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv19i2art10

6 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Ross D. Fuerman

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Nicole M Heron

Babson College - Accounting and Law Division; Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 18, 2022

Abstract

This article describes the implementation of a case study that uses as its setting the role of KPMG in the Wells Fargo consumer fraud scandal as a way for students to learn about what can happen during an audit failure and what should be done to prevent audit failure. As the case details illustrate, it features the only recent significant Big 4 audit failure that is still being resolved, the audit failure includes many aspects of an auditor’s job, including some that typically are not covered in traditional course textbooks, and it highlights the auditor’s role within the broader context of corporate governance. This case study exposes students to several auditing standards and laws related to 1) consumer fraud; 2) contingent liabilities; 3) materiality; 4) illegal acts; 5) audit evidence; 6) audit opinions; 7) auditor independence and mandatory rotation; 8) auditor liability under the Securities Act of 1933; and 9) auditor liability under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The case was used in two undergraduate auditing classes and a graduate auditing class. Student opinion surveys were used to ascertain the learning outcomes of the case study. The survey results suggest strong student engagement and support for learning in groups while collaborating on the case study. The case results also show particularly strong knowledge enhancement with regard to understanding the auditor’s duty to disclose illegal acts, understanding consumer fraud, understanding audit evidence, understanding materiality, and understanding contingent liabilities.

Keywords: Illegal Acts, Consumer Fraud, Audit Evidence, Materiality, Contingent Liabilities, Auditor Regulation

JEL Classification: M420, M480, K420

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun and Fuerman, Ross D. and Heron, Nicole M, Wells Fargo: Did KPMG Perform Its Duties? An Auditing Case About Consumer Fraud (February 18, 2022). Feng, N. C., Fuerman, R. D., & Heron, N. (2022). Wells Fargo: Did KPMG perform its duties? An auditing case about consumer fraud. Corporate Ownership & Control, 19(2), 121–126. https://doi.org/10.22495/cocv19i2art10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S.C. § 78j-1. Audit requirements
M Corkery
Wells Fargo fined $185 million for fraudulently opening accounts. The New York Times Posted: 2016-09-08
L M Doughtie
Letter to Senators Warren, Sanders, Hirono and Markey Posted: 2016-11-28
Y Hayashi
Wells Fargo to pay $1 billion to settle risk management claims
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2018-04-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,436
RANK
86,200
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies