Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partner Related Motives and Strategic Alliance Formation: Evidence from Small and Medium Enterprises in Kenya

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol..5 No.3 (2022)

18 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Richard K. Muthoka

Kenyatta University

James M. Kilika

Kenyatta University

Stephen M A Muathe

Kenyatta University

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of partner-related motives on firm performance, and the study targeted manufacturing SMEs based in Kenya. The partner-related motives were operationalized as the social factors of reputation-based motives, historical-based motives, and institutional-based motives, while firm performance is operationalized as sales growth and net profit. The target population for the study consisted of 74 SMEs based in Nairobi City County with existing strategic alliances. The study adopted descriptive and explanatory research designs and collected data from company CEOs or senior managers. The survey data was analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. The survey findings showed that partner-related motives have been adopted and practiced by manufacturing SMEs to a high extent (M=3.68; S.D.=0.83). The study findings indicate that partner related motives have a significant effect on performance of manufacturing SMEs (Adj R2=0.525, β=0.444, p<0.05). Accordingly, manufacturing SMEs in Kenya are motivated to form strategic alliances by reputation-based motives and institutional-based motives, with the same motives having a positive effect on SME performance. In contrast, historical-based motives have no significant effect on SME performance. Therefore, the study concluded that reputation-based motives push manufacturing SMEs in Kenya to engage in strategic alliances while, historical-based motives and institution-based motives pull manufacturing SMEs in Kenya to form strategic alliances with other firms. The study recommended that top managers in the manufacturing SMEs need to adopt a vigorous diagnostic process to identify and define their partner-related motives. The study observes that such a move will enable the manufacturing SMEs to identify the most suitable alliance partner(s) who can offer complementary resources to improve performance.


Keywords: Firm Performance, Manufacturing Sector, Partner Related Motives, Small and Medium Enterprises, Strategic Alliances

Suggested Citation:

Muthoka, Richard K. and Kilika, James M. and Muathe, Stephen M A, Partner Related Motives and Strategic Alliance Formation: Evidence from Small and Medium Enterprises in Kenya (August 18, 2022). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol..5 No.3 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S A Alvarez , J B Barney
How Entrepreneurial Firms Can Benefit from Alliances with Large Partners
The Academy of Management Executives , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 2001
J Barney
Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
M Barabel , O Meier , R Soparnot
Asymmetric Alliances Between SMEs and Large Firms in The Area of Innovation: Strategic Determinants and Cultural Effects
Gestion , issue 6 , p. 87 - 106 Posted: 2014
F Castellucci , G Ertug
What's in it for Them? Advantages of Higher-Status Partners in Exchange Relationships , volume 53 , p. 149 - 166 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
RANK
798,750
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies