Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Information and Bank-Loan Pricing: The Effect of Upcoming Corporate Spinoffs

74 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022 Last revised: 21 Mar 2023

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Vlad-Andrei Porumb

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Simona Rusanescu

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business, Department of Accounting and Auditing

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 21, 2023

Abstract

Corporate spinoffs are important events that are accompanied by valuation and credit-risk implications for the parent firm. Among other benefits, spinoffs can improve corporate focus and enhance valuation transparency. In the debt-contracting context, however, spinoffs can also be associated with negative outcomes for the divesting firms. We examine whether banks, due to their timely access to material private information, are able to ascertain the likelihood and the implications of impending spinoffs for the parent firm before a formal public announcement of the spinoff. Our empirical analyses indicate that, in the 365-day pre-spinoff announcement period, banks charge incrementally higher (lower) spreads to borrowers with increased (decreased) post-spinoff riskiness relative to non-divesting firms. This suggests that, while lenders recognize the value- and transparency-enhancing effects of spinoffs, they are also able to foresee potentially negative implications of these divestitures. Cross-sectional analyses indicate that banks charge incrementally lower loan spreads if spinoffs result in high-risk borrowers having either higher reporting quality or lower reporting or operational complexity. These results suggest that the post-spinoff increase in riskiness is compensated by the divestiture benefits typically associated with spinoffs. Similarly, high-risk borrowers incur larger spreads if they do not undergo “focus-increasing” spinoffs. Overall, our findings suggest that banks are able to ex-ante determine the implications of important corporate events such as spinoffs.

Keywords: Spinoffs, Bank-Loan Pricing, Private Information, Financial Reporting Quality, Disclosure, Complexity, Ex-Ante Analyses.

JEL Classification: G21, G30, G34, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Porumb, Vlad-Andrei and Rusanescu, Simona and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Private Information and Bank-Loan Pricing: The Effect of Upcoming Corporate Spinoffs (March 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4193898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
P Augustin , M Brenner , J Hu , M G Subrahmanyam
Are Corporate Spinoffs Prone to Insider Trading?
Critical Finance Review , volume 9 , issue 1-2 , p. 115 - 155 Posted: 2020
L Balasubramanyan , A N Berger , M M Koepke
How do lead banks use their private information about loan quality in the syndicated loan market
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 43 , p. 53 - 78 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,816
RANK
130,317
2 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies