Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sensing, Seizing, and Reconfiguring: What Enterprise Resource Planning Can and Cannot Do for Management Control Systems

Posted: 14 Sep 2022

Lian Zhong

Chongqing Technology and Business University

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Evangelia Varoutsa

Independent

Date Written: August 6, 2022

Abstract

Over the past decade, enterprise resource planning (ERP) has become widely used, especially in management control systems (MCS). Management accounting research has thus focused on ERP-based MCS. Surprisingly, however, there has been comparatively little analysis of the strategic impacts of ERP-based MCS. Existing studies on ERP-based MCS have not yet evaluated companies’ increasing reliance on ERP-based MCS to establish and implement dynamic capabilities (DC) — the ability that a company needs to change business strategies. Accordingly, this paper undertakes a single case study of ERP implementation in a medium-sized Chinese manufacturer whose management accounting changes are considered fundamental to developing its DC. Employing the theory of organisational routines and DC, we conceptualize MCS changes as routine changes, exploring the inner working of MCS changes as well as the relevant changes across routines of various levels. We find four fundamental MCS changes. First, tighter controls over data entry and consistent data processing methods were enacted to maintain the effectiveness of individual ERP-based MCS. Second, connections between information, tools, principles, and activities were enhanced to promote MCS to work as a whole. Third, the fundamental constituents of MCS information were redefined, and thus MCS could gradually immerse into the shop-floor level to make the shop-floor activities accountable. Fourth, MCS became the primary means of supporting managers to identify, codify, and develop (new) action patterns. The strategic impacts of modified MCS thus manifest through its critical role in developing seizing and reconfiguring routines. However, the use of ERP-based MCS is limited for developing a sensing routine. Accordingly, we contribute new evidence by tracing ongoing ERP changes to expand the digitalization-based MCS knowledge.

Keywords: Management controls, Enterprise resource planning, Dynamic capabilities

Suggested Citation:

Zhong, Lian and Xiao, Jason Zezhong and Varoutsa, Evangelia, Sensing, Seizing, and Reconfiguring: What Enterprise Resource Planning Can and Cannot Do for Management Control Systems (August 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4193851
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies