Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disentangling Reciprocal Relationships between R&D Intensity, Profitability and Capital Market Performance: A Panel VAR Analysis

Long Range Planning, Vol. 55, 102247, 2022

51 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2022 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Amit  Karna

Independent

Christos Mavrovitis (Mavis)

University of Surrey - Surrey Business School

Ansgar Richter

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

Research and development (R&D) investments are strategic choices that firms make to create and sustain competitive advantage. Extant literature proposes that firms’ R&D investments and their profitability and capital market performance are reciprocally related. However, the direction of these relationships and their temporal nature are unclear. We take a real options perspective to argue that the long-run firm performance effects of R&D investments are better than their short-term ones, and that the initial level of R&D intensity influences the nature of these relationships. We apply panel vector autoregression (P-VAR) to a sample of 6,623 U.S. firms over the 1990–2020 period in order to test our hypotheses. Our results indicate that increases in R&D intensity have negative effects on profitability in the short term, yet these effects diminish relatively quickly. The effects of increases in R&D intensity on capital market performance are positive and persist over time. Consistent with our predictions, they are contingent on the initial levels of R&D intensity and performance. The findings are fundamentally in line with the real options perspective employed here, yet they add important nuance to our understanding of when, how, and under which conditions R&D investments and firm performance affect one another.

Keywords: Research and development, real options, profitability, capital market performance, panel vector autoregression

JEL Classification: G14, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Karna, Amit  and Mavrovitis (Mavis), Christos and Richter, Ansgar, Disentangling Reciprocal Relationships between R&D Intensity, Profitability and Capital Market Performance: A Panel VAR Analysis (August 31, 2022). Long Range Planning, Vol. 55, 102247, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
897,300
133 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies