Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Local Newspaper Closures on Nonprofits’ Executive Compensation

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Joshua Khavis

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Date Written: November 20, 2023

Abstract

We examine the role of local newspapers in monitoring the nonprofit sector by testing how local newspaper closures affect nonprofits’ executive compensation levels. Although prior research establishes that local newspaper closures affect behavior of for-profits and municipalities, the unique governance and enforcement environment of nonprofits make it unclear whether and how closures of local newspapers will affect nonprofits’ executive compensation spending behavior. Consistent with local newspapers serving as an alternative monitoring mechanism within the nonprofit sector, we find that, following local newspaper closures, the levels of nonprofits’ executive compensation spending increases. This effect is less pronounced among nonprofits having audits and among those with better internal governance. Our results suggest that newspaper closures exacerbate agency problems among nonprofits particularly when alternative monitoring mechanisms of nonprofits are weaker.

Suggested Citation:

Felix, Robert and Khavis, Joshua and Pevzner, Mikhail, The Effects of Local Newspaper Closures on Nonprofits’ Executive Compensation (November 20, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
P M Abernathy
The expanding news desert: The loss of newspapers and readers Posted: 2018
J Andreoni
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: A theory of warm-glow giving
The Economic Journal , volume 100 , issue 401 , p. 466 - 477 Posted: 1990
S Balsam , E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
S Balsam , E Harris
Nonprofit executive incentive pay
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1665 - 1714 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,367
RANK
373,551
3 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies