Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IP Box Regimes and Multinational Enterprises : Does Nexus Pay Off?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 75-112

Posted: 23 Nov 2022 Last revised: 2 Dec 2022

Jessica M. Müller

University of Mannheim; Graduate School of Economic and Social Sciences (University of Mannheim)

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Daniela Steinbrenner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

Over the last decades, the OECD and the European Union (EU) aimed at regulations that prevent aggressive intellectual property (IP) tax planning of multinational enterprises (MNEs). These regulations should stop the international race to the bottom of effective tax burdens. Contemporaneously, EU Member States enacted favourable tax systems for corporate research and development (R&D) activities in order to increase their location attractiveness. Especially, the output-oriented R&D tax incentives, namely IP box regimes, gained attention from a tax fraud perspective as well as popularity by national governments to generate public revenues. In this article, we qualitatively and quantitatively examine the European IP boxes. Thereby, we analyse their impact on IP tax planning and location attractiveness in light of the changes introduced by the OECD’s modified nexus approach. Our results demonstrate that even after introducing the nexus, a considerable reduction in effective average tax burdens is possible. Nonetheless, in line with the policy intention, the nexus effectively prevents excessive reductions of MNEs’ tax burden. Moreover, we account for changes in IP tax planning and observe implicit subsidies for the combination of output- and input-oriented tax incentives. Thus, these combinations reduce MNEs’ tax liabilities and finally, increase the location attractiveness in the post-nexus era.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: patent box, MNE, tax burden, R&D, tax incentive, nexus

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Jessica M. and Spengel, Christoph and Steinbrenner, Daniela, IP Box Regimes and Multinational Enterprises : Does Nexus Pay Off? (January 21, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 75-112, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194541
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies