Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture and Tax Planning

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022

Mansoor Afzali

Hanken School of Economics

Timmy Thor

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: August 19, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we study the relationship between corporate culture and tax planning. Using the competing values framework and natural language processing techniques, we document that firms with collaboration-oriented (control-oriented) corporate cultures are associated with lower (higher) effective tax rates. We further find that firms with collaboration-oriented corporate cultures achieve these tax savings by engaging in tax-sheltering activities and that such savings positively affect firm value. While firms with salient control-oriented characteristics have previously been recognized to benefit from small tax burdens, we contribute with new evidence suggesting that intra-organizational reciprocity can also promote tax savings that ultimately benefit shareholders.

Keywords: JEL Classification: H26, M14, M41 Corporate culture, competing values framework, text analysis, tax planning, tax sheltering, firm value JEL Classification: H26, M14, M41 Corporate culture, competing values framework, text analysis, tax planning, tax sheltering, firm value

JEL Classification: H26, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Afzali, Mansoor and Thor, Timmy, Corporate Culture and Tax Planning (August 19, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
M Afzali
Corporate culture and financial statement comparability
Advances in Accounting , volume 60 Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Accounting quality and the transmission of monetary policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2019
B C Ayers , A C Call , C M Schwab
Do analysts' cash flow forecasts encourage managers to improve the firm's cash flows? Evidence from tax planning
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 767 - 793 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
403,165
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies