Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Market Consolidation and Tax Planning Intermediation: Evidence from Client Firm Tax Haven Operations

Kim, Jeong-Bon, Lin Yupeng, Mao Ying, and Wang Zheng. 2022. Banking Market Consolidation and Tax Planning Intermediation: Evidence from Client Firm Tax Haven Operations. The Accounting Review (Forthcoming) . Available at https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0243

53 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2022

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Ying Mao

Lingnan University

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: September 29, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the effect of banking market consolidations via mergers and acquisitions (M&As) on the role of banks in intermediating corporate tax planning through offshore tax haven operations. We find that bank clients significantly increase their tax haven operations after their banks are merged with others. In addition, such an increase is greater when a commercial bank merges with an investment bank and when the clients have greater tax planning opportunities. We also employ network analyses to show that the propensity for a client to expand its operations into a new tax haven country increases significantly when its relationship bank enters into this country through an M&A. Collectively, our findings reveal that bank M&As enhance banks’ tax intermediation capability.

Keywords: Tax haven, tax avoidance, banking market consolidation, tax planning intermediation

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lin, Yupeng and Mao, Ying and Wang, Zheng, Banking Market Consolidation and Tax Planning Intermediation: Evidence from Client Firm Tax Haven Operations (September 29, 2022). Kim, Jeong-Bon, Lin Yupeng, Mao Ying, and Wang Zheng. 2022. Banking Market Consolidation and Tax Planning Intermediation: Evidence from Client Firm Tax Haven Operations. The Accounting Review (Forthcoming) . Available at https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0243, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Acemoglu , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
Systemic risk and stability in financial networks
American Economic Review , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 564 - 608 Posted: 2015
R M Adams
Consolidation and merger activity in the United States banking industry from Posted: 2000
D Amel , C Barnes , F Panetta , C Salleo
Consolidation and efficiency in the financial sector: A review of the international evidence
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 28 , issue 10 , p. 2493 - 2519 Posted: 2004
Y Amihud , S Levi
The effect of stock liquidity on the firm's investment and production
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Oliver Zhen Li , Yupeng Lin , Keyuan Zhang
The 2003 U.S. Dividend Tax Cut, Bank Credit Supply, and the Real Economy
49 Pages · Posted: 16 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 86
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Patrick Kwashie Akorsu , Clement Lamboi Arthur , Daniel Gyimah , ALBERT MENSAH
Cross-Border Regulatory Cooperation and Tax Avoidance
EMEMAR-D-25-00101 · 68 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
258,355
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies