Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of the Implementation of Corporate Governance Values in Non-Governmental Organizations in Zambia

16 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2022

Nchimunya Hanjalika

University of Zambia (UNZA)

Bupe Getrude Mutono Mwanza

University of Zambia (UNZA)

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

The study was focused on assessing the implementation of corporate governance values in network Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in Zambia. It was principally based on three (3) specific objectives, and these were: 1) To evaluate the implementation process of corporate governance values in NGOs; 2) To establish the corporate governance values being implemented in NGOs; and 3) To determine the extent to which corporate governance values have been implemented in NGOs. The study adopted a research design using a concurrent mixed method where data was collected using interview templates and questionnaires. The respondents were picked using purposive sampling and simple random sampling techniques. The sample size was 40 respondents from NGOCC, Young Women Christian Association, and Habitat for Humanity. Analysis and interpretation of quantitative data was done using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 20.0 through Pearson’s Correlation Coefficient, mean and standard deviation to determine the relationship between variables, where qualitative data was analyzed using thematic analysis. The study found that there were several corporate governance values that implemented in NGOs such as financial reporting, transparency and accountability, board existence, good board culture, and environmental and workplace safeguards, moral integrity and commitment, as well as various stakeholders in the organisations operations, moral integrity and commitment in the management of their business. These values were implemented through various processes, through established policies and guidelines. Furthermore, it was established that corporate values such as accountability, financial reporting, board culture, board existence and board size were implemented to a greater extent. On the other hand, transparency was implemented to a moderate extent, while board tenure was implemented to a lesser extent. It was also found by Pearson's correlation coefficient test that board size, financial reporting, transparency, accountability and board culture positively influenced the implementation of cooperative governance in NGOs. From these findings the study recommended for the NGOs to review the laid down regulatory framework or policies and rules often to amend the ones not functioning to enhance the process implementing corporate governance values.

Keywords: Corporate governance, values, accountability, transparency, board existence, good board culture, NGOCC

Suggested Citation:

Hanjalika, Nchimunya and Mwanza, Bupe Getrude Mutono, An Assessment of the Implementation of Corporate Governance Values in Non-Governmental Organizations in Zambia (August 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
RANK
576,053
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies