Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of the SEC’s Regulatory Oversight on Private Debt Contracting: Evidence from Cross-listed Foreign Firms

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research

56 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022 Last revised: 15 Oct 2024

Mahfuz Chy

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Hoyoun Kyung

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: March 3, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of the SEC’s regulatory oversight on private debt contracting outcomes, using the signing of the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) as a natural experiment. The MMoU enables the SEC to take stricter punitive actions against wealth expropriation by cross-listed firms’ insiders and enforce better compliance with applicable rules and regulations. We find that enhanced SEC oversight in the post-MMoU regime lowers loan spreads by 36 basis points, thus saving an average cross-listed firm approximately $9 million in direct loan costs over the life of a bank loan. Cross-sectional analyses show that the effect is more pronounced for borrowers from countries with weaker institutions, borrowers with greater accounting discretion, and for loans arranged by top lenders or loans not secured by collateral. Conversely, the effect is less pronounced for borrowers that use IFRS or when the SEC faces greater budgetary constraints. Enhanced SEC oversight also leads to an increase in loan maturity and a decrease in financial covenants. Our evidence suggests that while the SEC’s primary mandate is to protect public equity and bond investors, its supervision yields substantial borrowing cost savings and more lenient nonprice loan terms in the private debt markets as well.

Keywords: SEC oversight, Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding, bank monitoring, bank loans, debt contracting, cost of debt

Suggested Citation:

Chy, Mahfuz and Khurana, Inder and Kyung, Hoyoun, Spillover Effects of the SEC’s Regulatory Oversight on Private Debt Contracting: Evidence from Cross-listed Foreign Firms (March 3, 2023). Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
Brian Akins , David De Angelis , Maclean Gaulin
Debt Contracting on Management
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 2095 - 2137 Posted: 2020
Franklin Allen
The Market for Information and the Origin of Financial Intermediation
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1990
Christopher Armstrong , Wayne Guay , Joseph Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Susan Athey , Guido W Imbens
Design-Based Analysis in Difference-In-Differences Settings with Staggered Adoption
Journal of Econometrics , volume 226 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 79 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Uzoamaka Akinteye
The Impact of Supervisory Cooperation Agreements on Bank Liquidity Creation
43 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 7 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 37
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
205,502
1 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies