Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abuse, Shell Entities and Right of Establishment : A Plea for Refocusing Current Proposals and Achieving Deeper Coordination within the Internal Market

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 187-236

Posted: 28 Nov 2022

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 25, 2022

Abstract

This article aims at identifying the most relevant shortcomings of any initiative of fighting against abuse of the right of establishment on the basis of a priori set substance indicators. It does so by reference to the Unshell Directive proposal against the broader background of the need to ensure consistency between secondary and primary EU law. In the process, it provides constructive criticism on possible paths that could be explored to align possible rules with underlying aims, highlighting the need to distinguish the addressing of shell entities from issues of corporate residency and transfer pricing. It also addresses issues concerning legislative technique, such as the need for greater fine-tuning when cross-referencing pre-existing EU secondary law and on the merits of the tenuous distinction between gateways and substance indicators. From a substantive viewpoint, it then examines each gateway and indicator in depth, highlighting possible loopholes and criticalities, also in conjunction with the foreseen exclusions. The article then focuses on an assessment, essentially based on the primary law framework in light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ), of the system of presumptions envisaged by the proposal and on the tax consequences of an entity being labelled as a shell. The feedback also raises the issue of the multiplication of reporting requirements, suggesting the aggregation of all of them in a single modular instrument, which could be used – across the internal market – each time a taxpayer is required to report tax relevant data which are not directly related to a specific income tax return. Scrutiny is also devoted to the possibility of requesting tax audits and the potential issues that may arise from this practice if not reconciled with the broader DAC framework. Finally, the article raises questions from the perspective of the safeguard of fundamental rights in connection with the envisaged “minimum penalty” encompassed by the proposal.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: substance over form, letter-box company, residence, constitutional law, ECJ case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and Turina, Alessandro and Lazarov, Ivan, Abuse, Shell Entities and Right of Establishment : A Plea for Refocusing Current Proposals and Achieving Deeper Coordination within the Internal Market (May 25, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 187-236 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194669
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies