Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of Corporate Sustainability Disclosure

28 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022

Magali A. Delmas

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Anderson School of Management, Students; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA); UCLA

Kelly Clark

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Tyson Timmer

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Moana McClellan

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

Disclosure of Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) metrics remains almost entirely voluntary, resulting in incomplete and unstandardized data that makes it difficult for stakeholders to collectively compare firms and assess their impact. To align reporting, in 2020 the World Economic Forum (WEF) proposed a framework consisting of metrics it asserted were already commonly used by firms. But little data supports this claim, as there is no comprehensive evaluation on firms’ disclosure rates on these metrics. This project aims to fill this gap. We selected 300 of the largest U.S. public companies from the Fortune 200 and S&P 500 lists because they’re high-revenue firms and have a substantial impact on global social and environmental trajectories. And these firms have more resources to devote to reporting ESG metrics. Under four pillars — Governance, Planet, People, and Prosperity — WEF describes 21 core metrics and 34 expanded metrics. This research focuses on these 300 companies’ disclosure related to the 21 core metrics, many of which have multiple subparts. For this analysis, we divide the 21 core metrics into 74 submetrics. We source data primarily from the text of sustainability reports (54.9%), firms’ websites, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) public filings (37.5%) or the Compustat database, and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (7.6%).

Keywords: Corporate Sustainability, Corporate Disclosure, World Economic Forum, Climate Change, ESG, Environment, Planet

JEL Classification: M14, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Delmas, Magali A. and Delmas, Magali A. and Clark, Kelly and Timmer, Tyson and McClellan, Moana, The State of Corporate Sustainability Disclosure (August 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Anderson School of Management and Institute of the Environment & Sustainability. delmas@ucla
Institute of the Environment & Sustainability
Institute of the Environment & Sustainability
Corey Christensen , Jasleen Kahlon , Kevin Truong
Ryan (Yuxuan) Bai, and Eustina Kim for their excellent research assistance in collecting the data, Madhava Sai Rohith Juturu and Mariah Francis for the figures
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,600
RANK
180,190
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies