Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management and Idiosyncratic Return Volatility

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Aug 2022

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Pallab Kumar Biswas

University of Otago

Dinithi Ranasinghe

University of Otago

Date Written: August 20, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Higher real earnings management (REM) reduces financial reporting quality and increases the uncertainty of future cash flows and profitability among investors. We assert that REM induced noise increases idiosyncratic return volatility (IVOL) and aim to examine the association between REM and IVOL. We further investigate whether information asymmetry, firm life cycle and economic policy uncertainty (EPU) moderate the association between REM and IVOL.

Design/methodology/approach: We use 94,445 firm-year observations from the US over 1987 to 2019. We test our hypotheses using Ordinary Least Square Regressions with robust standard errors clustered by firm. We use change analysis, two-stage models and the impact threshold of the confounding variable analysis to address endogeneity.

Findings: We find that REM increases IVOL. This positive association is more pronounced for firms with more information asymmetry, for firms in the mature stage of the life cycle, compared with their growth-stage counterparts; and during periods of high EPU.

Originality: Existing research suggests that accrual manipulation increases IVOL. However, the shift from accrual manipulation to REM and the managerial preference towards REM suggests that it is important to explore the impact of REM on IVOL. Thus, we enhance the understanding of the impact of earnings management on IVOL by documenting that REM induced noise increases IVOL. We further extend the limited research on the consequences of REM and report an adverse consequence.

Keywords: Real earnings management, idiosyncratic return volatility, discretionary accruals, firm life cycle, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41, G41

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Biswas, Pallab Kumar and Ranasinghe, Dinithi, Real Earnings Management and Idiosyncratic Return Volatility (August 20, 2022). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4195447
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies