Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-border enforcement of securities laws and dividend payouts

Chen, X, Chris, H, Albert, T, Yi, X. (2022) Cross-border enforcement of securities laws and dividend playouts. British Accounting Review. Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022

Xiaoqi Chen

Xiamen University

Date Written: August 20, 2022

Abstract

Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, numerous countries signed a special nonbinding arrangement to enhance cross-border enforcement of securities laws. This agreement is the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Consultation and Cooperation and the Exchange of Information (MMoU). This study examines whether and how a country’s MMoU entry affects firms’ dividend payout policies. Relative to domestic US firms, foreign firms cross-listed in the US report a significant increase in dividend payouts after their home country entered the MMoU. Furthermore, the effect of MMoU on corporate dividend payouts is pronounced for (1) firms with high agency costs, (2) countries with low external governance quality, and (3) countries with poor disclosure environments. Furthermore, we find that MMoU significantly changes the corporate governance structure. Our findings collectively corroborate the prediction of the dividend outcome model and are consistent with the notion that strengthening cross-border regulatory enforcement of foreign firms improves protection for outside shareholders and increases dividend payouts.

Keywords: dividend payout, agency problems, cross-listing, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaoqi, Cross-border enforcement of securities laws and dividend payouts (August 20, 2022). Chen, X, Chris, H, Albert, T, Yi, X. (2022) Cross-border enforcement of securities laws and dividend playouts. British Accounting Review. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4195450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate governance and dividend policy: Shareholders' protection or expropriation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5-6 , p. 648 - 667 Posted: 2010
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
J Atanassov , A J Mandell
Corporate governance and dividend policy: Evidence of tunneling from master limited partnerships
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 53 , p. 106 - 132 Posted: 2018
N Attig , N Boubakri , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
The global financial crisis, family control, and dividend policy
Financial Management , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 313 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
735,901
6 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies