Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Power and Ethical Corporate Citizenship on Firms’ Outcomes

36 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2022

Akwasi Ampofo

University of Connecticut

Reza Barkhi

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University

Abstract

This paper examines whether ethical corporate citizenship moderates the effect of CEO power on financial leverage, cost of debt, dividend payout, and firm value. Ethical corporate citizenship is operationalized as a binary variable of 1 for firms listed as World’s Most Ethical Companies (WMECs), and zero for non-WMECs. CEO pay slice is the percent of CEOs total compensation to the total compensation of the top 5 executives of the firm, and it is used as the proxy for CEO power. Results show that powerful CEOs who lead WMECs are likely to borrow more money at cheaper cost of debt, and pay higher dividends compared to powerful CEOs who lead non-WMECs. CEO power is not linearly related to Tobin’s q measure of firm value. Results do not change if we include corporate governance variables on the dual role of CEO and chairperson, CEO’s tenure, percent of shares owned by the CEO.

Keywords: Ethical corporate citizenship, World's Most Ethical Companies, Corporate Social Responsibility, CEO power, Financial Leverage, dividend payout.

Suggested Citation:

Ampofo, Akwasi and Barkhi, Reza, The Impact of CEO Power and Ethical Corporate Citizenship on Firms’ Outcomes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4195714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
J B Barney , J S Harrison
Stakeholder theory at the crossroads
Business & Society , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 203 - 212 Posted: 2020
L A Bebchuk , K M Cremers , U C Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
634
RANK
556,453
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies