Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Academic CEOs and Corporate Innovation

Journal of Financial Research, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022 Last revised: 25 Jul 2023

George J. Jiang

Washington State University

Wenquan Li

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) - International Business School Suzhou

Yaohua Li

University of Glasgow

He Wang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Date Written: December 17, 2022

Abstract

In this article, we examine the impact of academic CEOs (i.e., CEOs with academic experience) on corporate innovation. We find that firms managed by academic CEOs have strong aspirations for innovation and generate more patents with higher citations. We employ exogenous CEO turnover to alleviate endogeneity concerns. In addition, whereas corporate innovation gradually increases following the entry of new academic CEOs, there is a clear decrease in innovation output after the departure of academic CEOs. This net effect concentrates in innovation-intensive industries. Moreover, academic CEOs enhance innovation by leveraging their network with academic community and ability to secure government funding.


Keywords: Corporate innovation; CEO academic experience; Innovative effectiveness; External governance; Innovative industries

JEL Classification: G34, J24, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, George and Li, Wenquan and Li, Yaohua and Wang, He, Academic CEOs and Corporate Innovation (December 17, 2022). Journal of Financial Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4196027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4196027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Religion, gambling attitudes and corporate innovation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 229 - 248 Posted: 2016
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , P.-H Hsu , D Li , K Tseng
More cash, less innovation: The effect of the American jobs creation act on patent value
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2020
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
RANK
267,591
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies