Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Facial Masculinity and Accounting Conservatism

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Cecilia (Qian) Feng

Stony Brook University - College of Business

Peng Guo

Rutgers Business School - Camden

Hong You

Southwest University - College of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 21, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we examine the consequences of CEO facial masculinity for accounting conservatism. Facial masculinity is associated with an array of masculine behaviors including aggression, ambition, egocentricity, risk taking, and an increased desire to maintain social status. We predict that such behaviors lead to aggressive financial reporting practices that incorporate bad news into earnings in a less timely manner (i.e., lower conditional conservatism). Using a sample of S&P 1500 firms from 1993 to 2015, we find that CEOs’ facial masculinity is associated with less conservative accounting. This finding is robust to the use of several measures of conservatism. Further, we document that stronger external monitoring dampens the negative relationship between CEO facial masculinity and conservatism. Our findings complement recent work that reveals CEO facial masculinity is positively associated with fraud and AAERs, and contributes to the literature by documenting the effect of an “off the job” CEO characteristic on accounting conservatism.

Keywords: CEO Characteristics; Accounting Conservatism; Masculinity

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Feng, Cecilia (Qian) and Guo, Peng and You, Hong, CEO Facial Masculinity and Accounting Conservatism (August 21, 2022). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4196155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
J Addoum , G Korniotis , A Kumar
Stature, obesity, and portfolio choice
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 10 , p. 3393 - 3413 Posted: 2017
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
S Ahmed , J Sihvonen , S Vähämaa
CEO facial masculinity and bank risktaking
Personality and Individual Differences , volume 138 , p. 133 - 139 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
267,591
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies