Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Impact of Capital Regulation and Loan-Loss Reserving on Crisis Lending

47 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022

Karthik Balakrishnan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Xiao Liu

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: August 17, 2022

Abstract

We provide evidence that bank capitalization and loan-loss reserving jointly determine pro-cyclicality in lending. Using the Global Financial Crisis of 2007-2009 as our context, we document that even banks with high regulatory capital buffers (High RCB banks) reduce lending during the crisis. More- over, for High RCB banks, Crisis-lending is inversely related to the size of the buffer. We find that High RCB banks have higher risk exposures in their loan portfolios heading into the Crisis. These findings suggest that High RCB banks faced greater unexpected losses during the Crisis and, hence, cut back on lending more. This channel is distinct from the capital-crunch effect faced by banks with low regulatory capital buffers (Low RCB banks). Our evidence suggests that adequate loan- loss reserving heading into the crisis mitigates pro-cyclicality effect for both types of banks. Our analysis provides insight into the novel dimension of usability of capital buffers during downturns.


Keywords: Bank Lending, Prudential Regulation, loan-loss Provisioning

JEL Classification: G32, G38, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Karthik and Liu, Xiao and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Joint Impact of Capital Regulation and Loan-Loss Reserving on Crisis Lending (August 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4196175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4196175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
S Agarwal , S Chomsisengphet , J C Driscoll ; Aiyar , S , C W Calomiris , J Hooley , Y Korniyenko , T Wieladek
The international transmission of bank capital requirements: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 368 - 382 Posted: 2004
F Allen , E Carletti , R Marquez
Credit market competition and capital regulation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 983 - 1018 Posted: 2011
N Arjani
Procyclicality and bank capital
Financial System Review , volume 6 , p. 33 - 39 Posted: 2009
R Auer , S Ongena
The countercyclical capital buffer and the composition of bank lending: evidence from Switzerland
, volume 593 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
870
RANK
511,510
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies