Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Qualities and Corporate Fraud Abatement in Listed Nigerian Non-Financial Institutions
Heliyon

29 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022 Publication Status: Preprint

Simon Osiregbemhe Ilogho

Covenant University

Mojoyin Oyelude

Covenant University

Uwalomwa Uwuigbe

Covenant University

Olayinka Akinlo

Obafemi Awolowo University

Busola Kehinde

Covenant University

Abstract

This study examined audit committee qualities, gender and ethnic diversity on abating corporate fraud in Nigeria. This study aimed at investigating the influence of qualities like the audit committee size, frequency of the audit committee meetings, gender and ethnic diversity on the mitigation and control of corporate fraud. The study used the Beneish m-score model to measure corporate fraud in organizations. This study analyzed 30 non-financial firms recorded on the Nigerian Stock Exchange within the years on 2013-2017 using the regression analysis method. The total sample size of the study used were all listed firms on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, which consisted of 170 firms. The study, however, restricted this examination to non-financial firms due to the high regulation of the financial service sector such as the BOFIA and the Central Bank regulations, this then reduces the total population to 119 firms. The sample size was then selected based on the Kothari, 2004 sample selection which stated that 10-30% of a total population was regarded as an adequate sample size for a study. To ensure consistency, only firms whose annual reports were dated as January 1 st to December 31 st were analyzed. The study found a positive and insignificant relationship between the audit committee size and corporate fraud mitigation. The study also found that the audit committee meetings, gender and ethnic diversity did not correlate with corporate fraud mitigation. The study found that on average, firms met the statutory requirement for the size of the audit committee size and meetings, which is six (6) and four (4) respectively. The study encourages firms to possess a gender and ethnic diverse committee, even if there is no significant effect on corporate fraud mitigation. Firms are to maintain a diverse board except where the costs of having one outweigh the benefits. The study also encourages firms to maintain the number of meetings and size as are statutory required.

Keywords: Audit, Audit Committee, Corporate Governance, Fraud Mitigation.

Suggested Citation:

Ilogho, Simon Osiregbemhe and Oyelude, Mojoyin and Uwuigbe, Uwalomwa and Akinlo, Olayinka and Kehinde, Busola, Audit Committee Qualities and Corporate Fraud Abatement in Listed Nigerian Non-Financial Institutions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4196847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4196847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Acfe
Report to the Nations Posted: 2012
K A Adeyemo
Frauds in Nigerian Banks: Nature, DeepSeated Causes, Aftermaths and Probable Remedies
A Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 289 Posted: 2012
B Ajayi
Cadbury: Nigerias Enron
Nigeriaworld.com Posted: 2006
J A Akomolafe , D F Eluyela , S O Ilogho , J W Egharevba , O Aina
Financial crime in Nigeria public sector: A study of Lagos state ministries
International Journal of Innovative Research in Social Sciences & Strategic Management Techniques , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 21 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies