Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Market Threats and Tax Avoidance

51 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022

Tae-Nyun Kim

The College of New Jersey, School of Business

Pil-Seng Lee

Baylor University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

In this paper, we find that product market threats increase firms’ tax avoidance. This association is especially observed for firms that pursue tax avoidance more than their optimal target level (i.e., actively tax-avoiding firms). In addition, among these firms with active tax avoidance practices, firms with weaker corporate governance structure, lower financial flexibility, and greater predation risk are more likely to experience the positive relationship between product market threats and tax avoidance. Further evidence suggests that higher levels of tax avoidance driven by product market threats do not come with higher levels of tax uncertainty and rather positively affect firms’ profitability. This result highlights the decoupling relationship between tax avoidance and tax uncertainty.

Keywords: product market threats, tax avoidance, speed of adjustment, corporate governance, financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Tae-Nyun and Lee, Pil-Seng, Product Market Threats and Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4197202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson , B Price
Import competition and the great US employment sag of the
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 34 , p. S141 - S198 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Competition, financial discipline and growth
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 66 , p. 825 - 852 Posted: 1999
A Ali , S , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with Compustat data: Implications for finance research
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2008
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
200,166
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies