Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Risk Oversight Functions on Bank Risk: Evidence from the Dodd-Frank Act

69 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2022 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Lakshmi Balasubramanyan

Case Western Reserve University - Weatherhead School of Management

Naveen D. Daniel

Drexel University - Department of Finance

Joseph G. Haubrich

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

Lalitha Naveen

Temple University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Abstract

We document the impact of having a risk committee (RC) and a chief risk officer (CRO) on bank risk using the passage of the Dodd Frank Act as a natural experiment.  The Act requires bank holding companies with over $10B of assets to have an RC to oversee risk management, while those with over $50B of assets are additionally required to have a CRO.  We use difference-in-difference and regression discontinuity approaches to estimate the change in risk following RC and CRO adoption. Overall, we find no evidence that the RC or CRO have a causal impact on bank risk.

Keywords: Bank holding companies, Risk, Chief risk officer, Risk Committee, Dodd Frank Act, Bank risk, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Balasubramanyan, Lakshmi and Daniel, Naveen D. and Haubrich, Joseph G. and Naveen, Lalitha, Impact of Risk Oversight Functions on Bank Risk: Evidence from the Dodd-Frank Act. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Acharya , V Viral , Jennifer Carpenter , Xavier Gabaix , Kose John , Matthew Richardson , Marti Subrahmanyam , Rangarajan Sundaram , Eitan Zemel , V Viral , Matthew Acharya , Richardson
Restoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System
Corporate Governance in the Modern Financial Sector , p. 158 - 159 Posted: 2009
Renée B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Renée B Adams , Hamid Mehran
Is corporate governance different for bank holding companies? Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , p. 123 - 142 Posted: 2003
Vincent Aebi , Gabriele Sabato , Markus Schmid
Risk Management, Corporate Governance, and Bank Performance in the Financial Crisis
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , p. 3213 - 3226 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
432,018
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies