Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Information Technology on Internal Auditing and Customers’ Perception on Banking Transactions: A case study on National Bank of Oman

20 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2022

Mohamed Abdul Madhar

University of Technology and Applied Sciences/Nizwa college

Iman Almaktoomi

University of Technology and Applied Sciences/Nizwa college

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

Internal audits aim to evaluate the effectiveness of the process's internal controls by collecting information on how the unit operates, identifying potential areas of errors or inefficiencies, and identifying system controls to avoid or detect such incidents. The controls are then tested to see how well they work in terms of application and performance. Audit management is another major use of computers and networks by auditors. Auditors improve their ability to analyze systems and information and manage their tasks more effectively by seeking new uses for computers and communications. The productivity of the auditor, as well as the audit functions, can be improved by using automated techniques. In this paper, we will focus on the impact of information technology on internal auditing and how clients view banking transactions. The most important questions we will discuss are, How the internal control system in Omani banks, especially the National Bank of Oman? What the role of information technology in internal control and auditing? What is the perception of customer with regard to online banking transactions? Also, how far the modern “internet / mobile banking” transactions positively impacted Internal Control System of NBO. This study aims to study the internal control system in Omani banks, and in particular to the National Bank of Oman. Understand the role of information technology in auditing in general and focus on the banking sector. In addition to analyzing the impact of information technology on the internal control practices of banks. Also examining customer perception and trust in banking transactions in light of the modern computerized online banking system, in relation to the National Bank of Oman. It also aims to identify the new challenges in internal control as a result of the introduction of information technology in banks. Also discuss the strategies that can be applied to improve the internal control system in banking transactions. The approach followed through this research is a questionnaire for those who have bank accounts in Omani banks, in addition to an interview with the director of the National Bank in one of the branches. Finally, in this research, We study the impact of information technology technology on internal auditing and customers' perception of banking transactions. Where this study showed that the application of an effective internal control system in banks and affects their development by gaining the confidence of customers. In addition, high-quality banking services that are used via information technology affect customer satisfaction. There are many proposals in this study, the most important of which is that the Sultanate should work to develop the banking sector and focus on internal auditing largely through the use of information technology more.

Keywords: Information Technology, Internal audit,

Suggested Citation:

Madhar, Mohamed Abdul and Almaktoomi, Iman, The Impact of Information Technology on Internal Auditing and Customers’ Perception on Banking Transactions: A case study on National Bank of Oman (August 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4198852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Abu-Musa , N
Information Technology and Its Implications for Internal Auditing: An Empirical Study on Saudi Organizations
O Ali , N Majeed
The Impact of Information Technology on the Auditing Profession-Analytical Posted: 2017
K Al-Refaee , A Siam
The Effect of using Information Technology on Increasing the Efficiency of Internal Auditing Systems in Islamic Banks Operating in Jordan Posted: 2013
G Constantino , C Sapateiro
Internal Banking Auditing: From Conceptual Proposal to Technological Aids Development Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Raad Abdulameer Oleiwi
Technology and Business Model Innovation: Challenges and Opportunities
, volume 923 , p. 254 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,254
RANK
38,501
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies