Auditor management amid economic policy uncertainty: does corporate social responsibility matter?, Huy Viet Hoang"> Auditor management amid economic policy uncertainty: does corporate social responsibility matter?">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor management amid economic policy uncertainty: does corporate social responsibility matter?

Review of Accounting and Finance, upcoming

38 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022 Last revised: 14 Apr 2025

Huy Viet Hoang

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

Purpose

This study aims to examine the impact of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on Chinese firms’ auditor management, and how corporate social responsibility (CSR) moderates the impact.

Design/methodology/approach

Fixed-effect probit models with a rich set of control variables at firm-level and country-level are used to disentangle the impact in a sample of Chinese-listed firms from 2003 to 2019.

Findings

The author documents that Chinese firms opt for non-Big 4 auditors during heightened periods of EPU, and this decision is attributed to Big 4 auditors’ unnegotiable audit fees and firms’ lowered financial reporting quality during economic policy unpredictability. This finding holds with the instrumental variable approach and after accounting for the client’s endogenous choice of auditors. Interestingly, CSR categorically relieves the impact of EPU, thus embracing the risk mitigation theory regarding the insurance role of CSR.

Research limitations/implications

The findings imply that moving from Big-4 auditors to non-Big 4 counterparts during high EPU periods indicates firms’ greater reporting risk and CSR firms tend not to compromise their audit quality through auditor management.

Originality/value

To the best of the author’s knowledge, this study is among the first to examine and offer an empirical argument for auditor management among Chinese firms during heightened EPU periods.

Keywords: auditor management, corporate social responsibility, economic policy uncertainty

JEL Classification: D8, M42, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Huy Viet, Auditor management amid economic policy uncertainty: does corporate social responsibility matter? (July 15, 2022). Review of Accounting and Finance, upcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4199835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4199835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
B Al-Dah , M Dah , M Jizi
Is CSR reporting always favorable?
Management Decision , volume 56 , issue 7 , p. 1506 - 1525 Posted: 2018
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
S Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis , X Wang
A measure of economic policy uncertainty for China Posted: 2013
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
451,432
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies