Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the Financial Crisis and Basel III on Banks’ Risk Disclosure: A Textual Analysis

19 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2022

Avinoam Blum

Bar Ilan University

Alon Raviv

Bar-Ilan University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: August 26, 2022

Abstract

We study the effects of the 2008 crisis and Basel III guidelines on the content of the  financial reports of Israeli banks, which are highly regulated and follow the Basel  guidelines. Our findings, based on LDA topic modeling and term frequency, indicate that already at the time of the crisis Israeli banks had shifted the focus of their reports from market and operational risks to credit and liquidity risks. The introduction of Basel III amplified this trend, such that the reports focused on the new regulations of leverage and liquidity coverage ratios, while neglecting market risk and VaR methods.

Keywords: Topic modeling, LDA, Financial crisis, Basel III, Banks, Financial Reports

Suggested Citation:

Blum, Avinoam and Raviv, Alon, The Effects of the Financial Crisis and Basel III on Banks’ Risk Disclosure: A Textual Analysis (August 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4200644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Acheampong , T Elshandidy
Does soft information determine credit risk? Textbased evidence from European banks
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 75 Posted: 2021
Azmi Shabestari , M Moffitt , K Sarath , B
Did the banking sector foresee the financial crisis? Evidence from risk factor disclosures
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 647 - 669 Posted: 2020
H K Baker , S Kumar , K Goyal , A Sharma
International review of financial analysis: A retrospective evaluation between
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 78 Posted: 1992
Y Bao , A Datta
Simultaneously discovering and quantifying risk types from textual risk disclosures
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 6 , p. 1371 - 1391 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
RANK
344,140
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies