Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Blurring Lines between Private and Public Ownership

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 844/2022

56 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2022 Last revised: 30 Mar 2023

Michelle Lowry

Drexel University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 29, 2023

Abstract

As companies choose to stay private longer, they increasingly resemble their public counterparts. Along multiple dimensions, the shift from private to public status resembles a gradual transition rather than a regime shift. First, there is growing overlap between the sources of capital employed by private and public firms. Second, corporate governance structures such as the Board of Directors evolve over the years both preceding and following the IPO. As private firms become larger with more disperse ownership, their governance demands more closely resemble those of public firms; post-IPO dynamics are consistent with governance demands continuing to evolve over the firm’s life cycle. Third, while going public has been characterized as a means to obtain an acquisition currency, firms are increasingly growing via acquisition prior to the IPO. Macro-level changes reward economies of scale and scope, and the increased availability of capital to private firms facilitates acquisitions as a means to obtain rapid growth.

Keywords: private firms, IPOs, governance, mergers, capital raising

Suggested Citation:

Lowry, Michelle B., The Blurring Lines between Private and Public Ownership (March 29, 2023). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 844/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4200794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4200794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
V Acharya
Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation : the case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
C Aghamolla , R Thakor
Do mandatory disclosure requirements for private firms increase the propensity of going public Posted: 2021
N Amornsiripanitch , P Gompers , Y Xuan
More than money: venture capitalists on boards
Journal of Law, Economics and Organization , volume 35 , p. 513 - 543 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
683
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
87,334
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies