Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Political Risk and Dividend Payout

38 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022

Muhammad Farooq Ahmad

SKEMA Business School – Université Côte d'Azur

Saqib Aziz

Rennes School of Business

Rwan El-Khatib

Zayed University - College of Business

Oskar Kowalewski

IESEG School of Management; LEM - CNRS 9221; Polish Academy of Sciences

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We use a novel measure of firm-level political risk based on a textual search technique on firms’ quarterly earnings conference transcripts to explain dividend payouts in publicly listed U.S. firms. We find a positive and significant effect of firm-level political risk on dividend payouts, particularly in uncertainties related to economics, institutions, technology, trade, and security. The effect is more pronounced in firms with better corporate governance, less analyst follow-up, and higher growth opportunities. These results support the signaling role of dividends rather than the role of agency theory in explaining dividend payouts when firms are associated with higher levels of political risk. We also find the effect to be prominent after controlling for an aggregate measure of economic policy uncertainty and in poor and recessionary economic conditions. We address endogeneity concerns and selection bias by running placebo tests and performing propensity score matching technique.

Keywords: dividends, Firm-Level Political Risk, Agency Theory, Signaling Theory, Economic Policy uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Muhammad Farooq and Aziz, Saqib and El-Khatib, Rwan and Kowalewski, Oskar, Firm-Level Political Risk and Dividend Payout. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4201477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
F Allen , R Michaely
Handbook of the Economics of Finance Posted: 2003
K L Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of corporate dividend policy: A factorial analysis
The Financial Review , volume 28 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
Y Amihud , K Li
The declining information content of dividend announcements and the effects of institutional holdings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative analysis , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 637 - 660 Posted: 2006
C Andres , A Betzer , I Bongard , C Haesner , E Theissen
The information content of dividend surprises: Evidence from Germany
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 40 , issue 5/6 , p. 620 - 620 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
327,219
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies