Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Earnings Quality Matter? Evidence from the Athens Exchange

Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 52, Article 4

20 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2022

Ioannis Asimakopoulos

Bank of Greece

Athanasios P. Fassas

University of Thessaly

Dimitrios Malliaropulos

Bank of Greece; University of Piraeus

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

The relation between accounting earnings and firm valuation has long been a topic of interest to academics and stock market participants. The study analyses the relationship between earn-ings quality and firm value using a sample of non-financial firms with shares listed on the Athens Exchange over the period 2004-2019. The empirical findings indicate that investors value earn-ings quality, and this is reflected in a better valuation for firms having earnings of higher qual-ity. The results are robust to different methodologies and controls for firm-specific factors. The evidence is of particular importance for Greek firms seeking to expand their sources of financ-ing beyond the Greek banking system. Such a development requires constant monitoring and strengthening of the corporate governance framework, with the aim of improving the quality of information conveyed by the firms to investors. In this respect, the provisions of Law 4706/2020 regarding the Greek corporate governance framework and the operation of the Hellenic Capi-tal Market Commission seem to be in the right direction.

Keywords: Earnings quality; firm value; Tobin’s Q

JEL Classification: 15; G32; M41; C33

Suggested Citation:

Asimakopoulos, Ioannis and Fassas, Athanasios P. and Malliaropulos, Dimitris, Does Earnings Quality Matter? Evidence from the Athens Exchange (December 1, 2020). Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 52, Article 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4201698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
Greece , Indicatively
Also, a detailed analysis of Greek non-financial firms' financing through international bond markets, as well as details on the Bank of Greece corporate bond index
Box IX.1 , p. 142 - 143 Posted: 2014
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
S C Anagnostopoulou , A E Tsekrekos
Earnings management in firms seeking to be acquired
The British Accounting Review , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 351 - 375 Posted: 2015
P P Athanasoglou , I Asimakopoulos , C Siriopoulos
External financing, growth and capital structure of the firms listed on the Athens Exchange
Economic Bulletin , volume 26 , p. 59 - 77 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
RANK
724,439
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies