Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theorising Valuation Practices of Social Impact Investing Intermediaries

56 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2022

Richa Vijayraj

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Yesh Nama

King’s College London

Alan Lowe

School of Accounting; Aston University - Aston Business School - Finance and Accounting Group

Abstract

This study contributes to social studies of accounting and finance by engaging concepts from the Communities of Practice (CoP) to explain intermediation practices in the Social Impact Investing (SII) sector. We use data from a field study to investigate how community-like practices shape the impact investing market. We have studied the valuation practices of impact investment intermediaries and how they tackle the complexity of value plurality in terms of social and financial investment outcomes. We find that SII intermediaries are primarily aligned with investors and their financial market logic of financial risk and return without broader consideration of social returns. We also find that when actors are faced with making rational choices within ambiguities and conflicts, their judgements are grounded in what is their familiar notion of value. Focusing on the dimensions of boundary activities by intermediaries, this research contributes to the dynamics of participation and collaboration in a new sphere of financial markets. The role of intermediaries is conceptualized as boundary spanners producing and using boundary objects in the production and modification of practices of intermediation. Measurement tools respond to the meshing of human rationality about social impact with the impact indicators. SII actors use diverse methods and tools to measure social value without a corresponding level of dialogue on what is valuable and how it should be measured. Measurement tools are not adequate in an independent capacity but create a degree of comparability that can help the SII sector to develop an ongoing understanding of value.

Keywords: Social Impact investing, Valuation, Communities of Practice, Boundary Objects

Suggested Citation:

Vijayraj, Richa and Nama, Yesh and Lowe, Alan, Theorising Valuation Practices of Social Impact Investing Intermediaries. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4201514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4201514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
R Addis , F Michaux , S Mccutchan
Scaling impact: Blueprint for collective action to scale impact investment in and from Australia Posted: 2018
M Annisette , G Vesty , T Amslem
Accounting values, controversies, and compromises in tests of worth
Justification, evaluation and critique in the study of organizations Posted: 2017
N Antadze , F Westley
Impact Metrics for Social Innovation: Barriers or Bridges to Radical Change?
Journal of Social Entrepreneurship , volume 3 , issue 2 Posted: 2012
M Arena , G Azzone , I Bengo
Performance Measurement for Social Enterprises
Official journal of the International Society for Third-Sector Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 649 - 672 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
RANK
609,870
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies