Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Payout, Cash Holdings, and the COVID-19 Crisis: Evidence from the G-7 Countries

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Aug 2022

Christos Ntantamis

Dalhousie University - Department of Economics; Mount Allison University - Department of Economics

Jun Zhou

Dalhousie University

Date Written: June 10, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the adjustments of dividends and share repurchases of publicly listed firms in the G-7 countries. Firms in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Italy experienced a widespread cut in dividends, while firms in the United States and Canada cut cash payout more via share repurchases, with Japanese firms in between. Corporate cash holdings helped mitigate the negative impact of COVID on payout adjustments, but the impact was less significant for European firms.

Keywords: COVID-19, Dividends, Share repurchases, Cash holdings, G-7 countries

JEL Classification: G35, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ntantamis, Christos and Zhou, Jun, Corporate Payout, Cash Holdings, and the COVID-19 Crisis: Evidence from the G-7 Countries (June 10, 2022). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4202545
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies