Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Algorithmic Trading and Forced CEO Turnover: A Learning Hypothesis

63 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2025

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Jun Oh

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: August 02, 2025

Abstract

We examine the effect of algorithmic trading (AT) on forced CEO turnover and how boards respond to it. We find that the sensitivity of forced CEO turnover to stock returns declines with AT, suggesting that AT weakens the extent to which directors learn from market prices. Boards respond to this information loss by placing greater weight on non-market-based performance measures—such as accounting performance and analyst expectations—and by meeting more frequently to gather and process information. Despite these efforts, boards are less effective at making CEO turnover decisions when AT is higher. Overall, our findings suggest that while directors take steps to mitigate the reduction in price informativeness caused by AT, these adjustments fall short of fully offsetting its negative impact on board effectiveness.

Keywords: Algorithmic trading, stock returns, CEO turnover, directors, learning

JEL Classification: G30, J63, L20, E44, G19

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaewoo and Oh, Jun and Seo, Hojun and Zuo, Luo, Algorithmic Trading and Forced CEO Turnover: A Learning Hypothesis (August 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4202175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4202175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,440
RANK
97,096
1 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies