Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A 50-Year History of 'Zombie Firms' in Japan: How Banks and Shareholders Have Been Involved in Corporate Bailouts?

34 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2022

Jun-ichi Nakamura

Toyo University

Abstract

This study quantitatively and qualitatively reviews long-term changes in “zombie firms” in Japan over a half-century from the early 1970s to the end of the 2010s. We use a unified framework in which the concept of “zombie firms” includes possible efficient bailouts. Moreover, using regression analysis, we show how banks and shareholders have been involved in corporate bailouts and uncover the reality of Japanese firm governance to challenge popular beliefs. We find three major waves in the ratio of “zombie firms” Over the last 50 years. The first occurred during the period of main banks (hereinafter MBs). The wave was small, and the impact of rescuing distressed companies on banks’ health was almost insignificant, allowing them to intervene proactively and boldly. During the second and largest wave of the lost decade, attention was solely focused on the problem of “zombie firms” in the non-manufacturing sector, which had a huge impact on banks’ health due to their large amount of borrowings. However, we find that the problem in the manufacturing sector was just as serious in terms of firm count. The structural problems of the manufacturing sector became clear in the third wave following the global financial crisis. Surprisingly, for the manufacturing sector, the wave was comparable in size to the lost decade. However, it was underestimated due to the aggressive monetary easing implemented in response to the financial crisis and the reduced concentration of risk in the banking sector compared to previous periods. Based on these observations, we ran a regression analysis to explain the likelihood of distressed firm bailouts after avoiding selection bias, to clarify how banks and shareholders were involved in the bailout. Findings reveal that the presence of the MB with a loan ratio above a certain threshold increased the probability of a bailout in the 1970s. However, commonly held beliefs about MBs’ monitoring power and the role of corporate groups and long-term credit banks were not supported. We discovered that during the lost decade, the pathological phenomena of problem procrastination and unwilling concentration of loans to the MB were more common in the manufacturing sector, and that foreign investor discipline was only effective in the non-manufacturing sector. Soft budget constraints may have occurred in the manufacturing sector since the mid-2000s, in the sense that over-indebted firms that are no longer competitive with declining sales receive financial support because of their net assets as a legacy of the past.

Keywords: Zombie firm, Bailout, Main bank, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Nakamura, Jun-ichi, A 50-Year History of 'Zombie Firms' in Japan: How Banks and Shareholders Have Been Involved in Corporate Bailouts?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4204241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,082
RANK
301,058
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies