Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Sustainability Reporting Practices of Indian Companies

Conference Proceedings : National Conference on Challenges in Sustainable Development Goals in Post Pandemic Era

6 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Dr. Nitin Kishore Saxena

Institute of Commerce, Nirma University

Date Written: July 23, 2022

Abstract

In today’s era, corporate governance reporting is not only limited to corporate social responsibility (CSR) but now the focus is on the policies of the companies towards the environment, society, and governance (ESG). Nowadays, the performance of the companies is not only measured by the profit and market share but also measured by the actions of the companies toward social, economic, and sustainable activities. Worldwide, companies are preparing ESG and sustainability reports based on various frameworks like GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative), Dow Jones Sustainability reporting, etc. In India, companies are preparing business responsibility reporting (BR) as a sustainability reporting practice as per SEBI norms, and some of the companies are also preparing reports as per GRI. Recently, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs constituted a committee and revised the BR reporting guidelines, and developed the new Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR). It is required to prepare on a voluntary basis for the financial year 2021-22 and will be mandatory from the financial year 2022-23.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, CSR, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report

JEL Classification: M41,G32

Suggested Citation:

Saxena, Dr. Nitin Kishore, A Study on Sustainability Reporting Practices of Indian Companies (July 23, 2022). Conference Proceedings : National Conference on Challenges in Sustainable Development Goals in Post Pandemic Era, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
679
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,756
RANK
87,973
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies