Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boundaries of the Firm and Real Earnings Management

Marisetty, V. B., & Sairam, Moturi (2023). Firm Boundaries and Real Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204776 (Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation)

54 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Vijaya Marisetty

University of Twente; University of Hyderabad

Sairam Moturi

School of Management Studies, University of Hyderabad

Date Written: August 30, 2022

Abstract

Despite harmful effects, Real Earnings Management (REM) is increasingly becoming more popular method of earnings management than Accruals based Earnings Management (AEM) (Cohen et al., 2008; Commerford et al., 2018). We argue that, when firms’ organizational structure has extended boundaries with other firms, the benefits due to REM can outweigh the costs. We use family business groups, that extend firm boundaries with other affiliated firms, for testing our conjecture. Using a large dataset of 11417 firm-year observations of Indian firms, we show that REM is significantly higher in business group affiliated firms compared to standalone firms. Further, intragroup transactions, in the form of purchases, sales, and cash flows from operating activities, contribute to higher REM activities. More importantly, when group affiliated firms engage in intragroup transactions and report higher REM, mainly in the form of abnormal production, they experience increase in their future profitability and decrease in their cost of equity.

Keywords: Real Earnings Management, Firm Boundaries, Related Party Transactions

JEL Classification: M1, M4, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Marisetty, Vijaya and Moturi, Sairam, Boundaries of the Firm and Real Earnings Management (August 30, 2022). Marisetty, V. B., & Sairam, Moturi (2023). Firm Boundaries and Real Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204776 (Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
509
RANK
527,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies