Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Disclosure Amid Uncertainty Shocks

53 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 1 May 2024

Lucas Knust

ZHAW School of Management and Law

David Oesch

University of Zurich

Date Written: May 1, 2024

Abstract

Our paper sheds light on the relationship between uncertainty and the disclosure of management forecasts. To this end, we use a novel instrumentation strategy that exploits firms’ differential exposure to aggregate uncertainty shocks in currencies, energy and policy. We show that an increase in firm-level uncertainty increases the propensity of firms to issue management forecasts and the number of management forecasts disclosed. Cross-sectional tests suggest that firms with a commitment to guidance increase their disclosure to mitigate deteriorating information asymmetry following increased uncertainty.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Management forecasts, Information environment, Uncertainty, Volatility

JEL Classification: D80, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Knust, Lucas and Oesch, David, Firm Disclosure Amid Uncertainty Shocks (May 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4204992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 12 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D J Taylor
The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments Posted: 2022
I Alfaro , N Bloom , X Lin
The finance uncertainty multiplier
Journal of Political Economy Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,455
RANK
261,368
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies