Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender and Racial Diversity: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls

19 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Patricia L. Naranjo

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

We examine the gender and racial diversity of executives participating in earnings calls, and how it evolves over time. Using transcripts of 44,956 earning conference calls of U.S. public firms from 2002 to 2014, we find that female and racial minority executives are much less likely to speak during these calls, conditional on attending. While the number of female and racial minority executives attending conference calls has gradually increased, the number of times women or racial minority executives speak during calls shows no improvement. The differences are more pronounced for C-suite level executives and executives that have worked longer at the firm. These findings are consistent with corporations making efforts to increase diversity in the executive teams that attend earnings calls, but they suggest that greater diversity in attendance does not necessarily lead to more diverse views being voiced, especially at the highest ranks. The capital market responds positively to increased diversity, but only when the females or racial minorities in attendance speak up more frequently. An increase in the mere number of female and minority executives attending a call does not lead to stronger capital market responses.

Keywords: Gender diversity, Racial diversity, Earnings conference call, Capital markets

JEL Classification: G10, G14, J15, J16, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Gregory S. and Naranjo, Patricia L. and Yu, Gwen, Gender and Racial Diversity: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
235,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies