Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Digital Transformation Improve the Quality of Corporate Information Disclosure?

40 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2022

Tao Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chen Chen

Guangdong University of Technology

Ximeng Jia

Sichuan University

Abstract

Digital transformation which can improve enterprises’ information processing capability and supervision efficiency may also further affect the quality of information disclosure of micro-enterprises. Based on the data of A-share listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2010 to 2020, this paper conducts an empirical test on both the impact of digital transformation on the quality of information disclosure, and the mechanism of such impact. The research findings include: First, digital transformation significantly improves the quality of corporate information disclosure. This causal relationship between digital transformation and the quality of corporate information disclosure remains unchanged after the endogeneity was alleviated by DID and variable sensitivity analysis; second, different digital technologies significantly improve the quality of corporate information disclosure; third, digital transformation impacts the quality of information disclosure partly through reducing agency costs and increasing the stickiness of executive compensation; fourth, the study further finds that the market competition of product and internal governance can significantly enhance the positive impact of digital transformation on information disclosure. This paper not only enriches the empirical research on the economic consequences of digital transformation and the influencing factors of information disclosure, but also provides a reference for the quality improvement of corporate information disclosure and the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of small and medium investors in their process of digital transformation.

Keywords: digital transformation, quality of information disclosure, agency cost, Corporate governance, industry competition

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Tao and Chen, Chen and Jia, Ximeng, Can Digital Transformation Improve the Quality of Corporate Information Disclosure?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
189,693
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies