Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Commitment to Responsible Investing and Investee ESG Disclosure

64 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 3 Jun 2025

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: May 27, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether investors’ commitment to socially responsible investment principles influence their investee firms’ public disclosure of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) information. We find that following institutional investors’ public commitment to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), investees’ ESG disclosure in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports increases. We identify two mechanisms through which PRI investors influence investee firms’ ESG disclosure: submitting shareholder proposals that request enhanced sustainability disclosure and engaging directly with investee firms to encourage greater ESG disclosure. Our conclusions are robust to considering: 1) Alternative measures of ESG disclosure; 2) The level of institutional ownership of the firm by PRI investors before they join the PRI initiative and by other investors; 3) The ESG performance of the investee firm, using alternative ESG score providers; 4) The simultaneous estimation of institutional investment decision, firm ESG performance, and firm ESG disclosure; and, 5) An event triggering institutional investor demand for environmental information - the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. We also find that the improvement in firms’ ESG disclosure is attributable primarily to PRI institutional investors from Europe and is not driven only by large influential institutional investors. Overall, our analyses suggest that investors’ public commitment to social responsibility plays a crucial role in enhancing investee firms’ public disclosure of ESG information.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), sustainability, institutional ownership, socially responsible investment (SRI), ESG

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Isidro, Helena and Marques, Ana Cristina, Investor Commitment to Responsible Investing and Investee ESG Disclosure (May 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Abraham , M Olbert , F Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1611 - 1660 Posted: 2024
I Abramova , J Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
H Akamah , S Shu
Large shareholder portfolio diversification and voluntary disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2918 - 2950 Posted: 2021
A Al-Tuwaijri , T Christensen , K Hughes , I I
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,222
RANK
138,343
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies