Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability between M&A Bidders and Targets and Deal Outcome

55 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2022 Last revised: 3 Dec 2024

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Andrianos E. Tsekrekos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether acquirers make better acquisitions when target firms’ financial statements exhibit higher comparability with those of the acquirer. We hypothesize that higher comparability between M&A bidders/targets will result in lower deal integration and information processing costs, and easier detection of any financial misreporting practices. We examine long-run deal performance and find that financial reporting comparability between acquirers/targets is positively associated with long-run deal performance and makes post-acquisition divestitures less likely, consistent with comparability resulting in more successful acquisitions. We provide evidence on how comparative accounting information between M&A counterparties influences capital allocation decisions and value creation.

Keywords: Financial Statement Comparability, Mergers and Acquisitions, M&As, Synergies, Divestitures, Short-term and long-term M&A performance

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Tsekrekos, Andrianos E., Accounting Comparability between M&A Bidders and Targets and Deal Outcome (December 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,512
RANK
287,617
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies