Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Return-Maximizing CEO Equity & Cash Compensation Determinants of Return-Maximizing CEO Equity & Cash Compensation

Pandher, G.S. (2022), “Determinants of Shareholder Return-Maximizing CEO Compensation”, International Review of Economics and Finance, 79, 154-168.

41 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Gurupdesh S. Pandher

University of Windsor, Odette School of Business

Date Written: May 2022

Abstract

While the literature appeals to efficiency arguments from agency theory to explain the relative rise of CEO equity compensation, prior work has given less focus to CEO pay contracts based on equity and cash incentives that directly (analytically) maximize the total return of firm owners. The extended agency framework differs in that the principal’s objective function is the total shareholder return (inclusive of profits and associated gain in market value) and CEO equity and cash incentives are determined jointly taking account of the noisy market valuation relationship between firm income measures and value. We find that CEO cash incentives related to firm business performance (e.g., profits) are larger than equity incentives in the return-maximizing contract and both incentives increase with firm growth prospects and CEO productivity while business risk increases CEO equity incentives and decreases cash incentives. Further, the cash-only contract dominates the equity-only contract when firm equity risk exceeds business risk while the joint incentives contract generates the highest level of CEO effort. Overall, given the prevailing dominance of CEO equity compensation, the model and numerical study show that CEO cash incentives linked to firm business performance play a critical role in maximizing shareholder returns.

Keywords: CEO cash and equity incentives, firm growth prospects, firm business risk, equity return risk, corporate scale.

JEL Classification: G3, D8, M4, J3, L2, M2

Suggested Citation:

Pandher, Gurupdesh S., Determinants of Return-Maximizing CEO Equity & Cash Compensation Determinants of Return-Maximizing CEO Equity & Cash Compensation (May 2022). Pandher, G.S. (2022), “Determinants of Shareholder Return-Maximizing CEO Compensation”, International Review of Economics and Finance, 79, 154-168., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies