Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Transition: A Literature Review

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (JIAAT), Elsevier (Forthcoming)

54 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2022

Olga Golubeva

Stockholm business school

Date Written: August 29, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to provide a literature review analysing the effects arising from the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in former Soviet Union countries (FSUC). The benefits and challenges identified through international accounting studies are applied as a conceptual framework to analyse the existing literature on the effects of IFRS adoption in transition economies. The article adopts a mixed-method approach that explores content by performing a qualitative analysis with quantification using NVivo software. By integrating findings and perspectives from 46 academic papers published in the English language literature from 2005 to 2020, the study highlights key achievements and limitations in FSUC, making findings readily available for scholars, policymakers and practitioners. Although adoption of IFRS is shown in the article to have a non-significant impact on practices in FSUC, the study’s conclusions contribute to the international debate on the relevance of IFRS to the national needs of different countries, particularly for those transition economies with a strong codified legal tradition rooted in the previous administrative system associated with Soviet accounting.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, former Soviet Union countries, literature review, NVivo software

JEL Classification: M41, M48, P2

Suggested Citation:

Golubeva, Olga, Accounting for Transition: A Literature Review (August 29, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (JIAAT), Elsevier (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
RANK
605,468
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies