Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness, Life Cycle Stages and Level of Investments: an analysis of the moderating effect on B3 listed companies

Marques, V. A., Silva, B. C. da, Alencastre, B. Z., Louzada, L. C. ., & Martinez, A. L. . (2022). Contabilidade Vista & Revista, 33(2), 57-83. https://doi.org/10.22561/cvr.v33i2.6796

34 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Vagner Marques

Accounting Department - Federal University of Espírito Santo

Beatriz Campos

Federal University of Espírito Santo

Bárbara Alencastre

Federal University of Espírito Santo

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Luiz Claudio Louzada

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 29, 2020

Abstract

The present study analyzed the firms' life cycle stages (LCS) moderating effect in the relationship between tax aggressiveness and the level of investments of the Brazilian companies listed on B3. The descriptive, documentary research with a quantitative approach used quarterly data from 2012-2020 of 3,853 observations from 270 companies in the Refinitiv and COMDINHEIRO databases. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, a test of differences between means, correlation, and regression analysis with panel data using Stata 16 software. The results showed that the LCS exerts a moderating effect on the relationship between tax aggressiveness and the level of investments. It was observed that in companies in the stages of Growth, Turbulence, and Decline, the tax aggressiveness positively affects the level of investments, reinforcing the importance of tax planning, especially in companies. The results were consistent for different proxies of investment level and tax aggressiveness, even using the tax burden measured from the Value-Added Statement (VAS). The findings showed that tax aggressiveness has a moderating and lagging effect on the level of investments. The results provide essential insights for accountants, managers, and auditors, thus contributing to the discussion about the use of alternative proxies in identifying the effects of tax aggressiveness in the Brazilian context.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness, Investment Level, Return on Investments

JEL Classification: G31; M21; M40.

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Vagner and Campos, Beatriz and Alencastre, Bárbara and Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Louzada, Luiz Claudio, Tax Aggressiveness, Life Cycle Stages and Level of Investments: an analysis of the moderating effect on B3 listed companies (July 29, 2020). Marques, V. A., Silva, B. C. da, Alencastre, B. Z., Louzada, L. C. ., & Martinez, A. L. . (2022). Contabilidade Vista & Revista, 33(2), 57-83. https://doi.org/10.22561/cvr.v33i2.6796, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies