Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Unions and Post-Acquisition Integration Capability: Evidence from Goodwill Impairment

Kallousa N, Jang Y, Jung B, Warsame H 2022 Labor Unions and Post-Acquisition Integration Capability: Evidence from Goodwill Impairment. J. Bus. Financ. Account. Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022

Najlaa Kallousa

Koç University

Youngki Jang

University of Delaware

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: August 21, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether operating inflexibility posed by labor unions affects goodwill impairment. We predict such inflexibility hinders resource reallocation after acquisition, thereby preventing the acquiring firm from realizing synergies included in goodwill. Consistent with this prediction, we find that the strength of labor unions is positively associated with the likelihood and magnitude of goodwill impairment losses. Our results are robust to a battery of tests that address the potential endogeneity. Furthermore, we find that managers who possess superior ability mitigate the negative consequences of labor unions on goodwill impairment. Overall, our findings suggest that operating inflexibility posed by labor unions is an important determinant of goodwill impairment that indicates a failure to realize the expected synergy from the acquisition.

Keywords: Labor unions; Acquisitions; Synergy; Goodwill impairment; Managerial ability

JEL Classification: G34; J50; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kallousa, Najlaa and Jang, Youngki and Jung, Boochun and Warsame, Hussein A., Labor Unions and Post-Acquisition Integration Capability: Evidence from Goodwill Impairment (August 21, 2022). Kallousa N, Jang Y, Jung B, Warsame H 2022 Labor Unions and Post-Acquisition Integration Capability: Evidence from Goodwill Impairment. J. Bus. Financ. Account. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
RANK
649,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies