Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Political Preference and Credit Ratings

Bhandari, A., & Golden, J. (2021). CEO political preference and credit ratings. Journal of Corporate Finance, 68, 101909.

69 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This study investigates whether a CEO’s personal political ideology, as captured by his or her political contributions, is associated with a firm’s credit ratings. Republican CEOs, we find, are associated with higher credit ratings, especially when their firms are headquartered in conservative areas. In addition, the link between political ideology and credit rating is more pronounced in firms that exhibit high financial distress or weak corporate governance. Changes in political ideology are associated with changes in credit rating. Our results support the behavior consistency, upper echelon, and social identity theories, as well as the risk acceptance hypothesis, and are robust to a number of alternative specifications as well as when alternate approaches and measures of credit risk are introduced. Using Republican CEOs as a proxy for conservative CEOs, our evidence implies that credit rating agencies justifiably view a CEO’s political ideology and conservatism as indicative of corporate policies and, therefore, as an important determinant of the firm’s credit ratings.

Keywords: CEO political ideology, conservatism, credit ratings, agency problem, corporate governance, debt contracting, debt markets

JEL Classification: G12, G24, Z13, J10,H50, H70, H80

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Avishek and Golden, Joanna, CEO Political Preference and Credit Ratings (2021). Bhandari, A., & Golden, J. (2021). CEO political preference and credit ratings. Journal of Corporate Finance, 68, 101909., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
401,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies