Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Trends – What the Boards of All Companies Should Know About ESG Regulatory Trends in Europe

18 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 25 Sep 2022

Alain Pietrancosta

Sorbonne Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Alexis Marraud des Grottes

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, LLP

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

France and Europe are at the forefront of ESG regulation. They have taken steps that go far beyond mere reporting requirements, aiming at designing a new capitalism. This will have significant consequences for European companies, but also for non-European companies doing business in Europe, as the EU shows more and more inclination to enforce its ESG regulation on a worldwide basis. At a time when the United States is avidly debating the advisability of introducing climate disclosure rules for public companies, or additional information regarding professional investors’ ESG investment practices, a closer look should be taken at what Europe, led by France, has already accomplished in this area and where major current reforms are leading. From a regulatory viewpoint, this will help measure the gap between the two continents and perhaps, in some areas, draw avenues for rapprochement so that multinationals do not have to undergo a mix of regulations and ensure that neither companies nor investors are faced with a fragmented proliferation of standards, frameworks and parameters. From a practical standpoint, it is of the utmost importance for the boards of directors of multinational companies, in this period of rapid change, identify key ESG issues and better anticipate the European regulatory efforts to green the economy.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, non-financial reporting, diversity, social and environmental issues, raison d'être, CSRD, CS3D, due diligence, extraterritoriality

JEL Classification: K13, K20, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Pietrancosta, Alain and Marraud des Grottes, Alexis, ESG Trends – What the Boards of All Companies Should Know About ESG Regulatory Trends in Europe (September 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4206521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,721
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,924
RANK
23,561
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies