Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Noncompliance: Do Corporate Violations Affect Bank Loan Contracting?

67 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2022 Last revised: 21 May 2024

Huu Nhan Duong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Mariem Khalifa

Zayed University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Ali Sheikhbahaei

Monash University

Mohammed Aminu Sualihu

Zayed University

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of corporate violations on bank loan contracting and document that borrowers with higher corporate violation penalties have higher loan costs. Higher corporate violations are also associated with more restrictive covenants and a higher likelihood of a collateral requirement. The increasing effect of corporate violations on loan costs is concentrated in opaque firms or those subject to more competitive markets or ineffective monitoring. Firms with higher violation penalties have lower future performance and a higher number of future violations. Overall, our results demonstrate that banks factor corporate violations into their lending decisions, thus shedding new light on the economic consequences of corporate violations through the creditors’ lens.

Keywords: corporate violations, bank loans, financing costs, noncompliance.

JEL Classification: G32; G34; G38; K22; M48

Suggested Citation:

Duong, Huu Nhan and Khalifa, Mariem and Sheikhbahaei, Ali and Sualihu, Mohammed Aminu, Corporate Noncompliance: Do Corporate Violations Affect Bank Loan Contracting? (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,212
RANK
274,044
1 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies