Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Payments in Loss Firms

51 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 2 Dec 2024

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Adrian Kubata

University of Luxembourg

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: September 12, 2022

Abstract

Over a thirty-year period in a broad sample of publicly traded firms, we observe that the share of firms annually reporting pre-tax book losses increased from about 20 to 35%. Surprisingly, of those loss firms 67% have positive cash tax payments (taxpaying loss firms). The amount of taxes paid by these loss firms is substantial and increasing over time. Also surprisingly, we observe that taxes paid are increasing in the magnitude of pre-tax losses. This study seeks to understand this prevalence of taxpaying loss firms. We investigate the determinants of why loss firms pay taxes. We find that firms’ multinational vs. domestic status, state taxes, consolidation differences (minority interest and equity method earnings), goodwill impairments, asset write-downs, extraordinary items and discontinued operations, depreciation differences, the frequency of losses, and firm size are important determinants of why loss firms are paying taxes and are also associated with the magnitude of the taxes paid.

Keywords: corporate taxes, losses, corporate tax function

JEL Classification: G39, H20, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S. and Kubata, Adrian and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Tax Payments in Loss Firms (September 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
U Akcigit , J Grigsby , T Nicholas , S Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation in the Twentieth Century
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , issue 1 , p. 329 - 385 Posted: 2022
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit Ratings and Taxes: The Effect of Book-Tax Differences on Ratings Changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
C Bokulic , E Henry , G A Plesko
Reconciling Global Financial Reporting with Domestic Taxation
National Tax Journal , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 933 - 960 Posted: 2012
M Breuer , E Dehaan
Using and Interpreting Fixed Effect Models
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,279
RANK
162,978
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies