Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Finance and Corporate ESG

18 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2022

Weiwei Mu

University of International Business and Economics

Kefu Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Yunqing Tao

Peking University - National School of Development

Abstract

We investigate the effect of digital finance on corporate environmental, social and governance (ESG). Using a large sample of Chinese listed firm over the period 2011-2020, we find that digital finance positively affects corporate ESG performance, which remains robust after a series of robustness checks. We also find that digital finance enhances the ESG through mitigating corporate financing constraints. In addition, the positive effect of digital finance on corporate ESG performance is more pronounced in non-state owned enterprises, small-sized firms, firms with lower level of marketization, and firms in the central and western regions.

Keywords: Digital finance, ESG, financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Mu, Weiwei and Liu, Kefu and Tao, Yunqing, Digital Finance and Corporate ESG. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
701
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
84,618
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies