Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Losses Under IFRS 9, Regulatory Capital Requirements and Banks’ Profits: A Counterfactual Analysis

35 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2022

Antonio Sánchez Serrano

European Systemic Risk Board

Date Written: September 2, 2021

Abstract

The adoption of expected credit loss approaches, such as CECL and IFRS 9, should theoretically lead to timelier and fuller recognition of credit losses, but they are not a panacea. We assess the dynamics of credit losses under CECL and IFRS 9 over the cycle, contributing to the growing literature on this field. Our counterfactual analysis of the US banking system since 1985 also considers dividend policies and prudential capital requirements. Our main finding indicates that the adoption of expected credit loss approaches would have not significantly changed the cyclical profile of credit losses, although it could have led to some anticipation of credit losses before the global financial crisis. We also find that the desired coverage of performing and of stage 2 exposures are the most important variables to achieve an effective anticipation of credit losses before recessions. Lastly, the potential capital shortages created by the additional credit losses recognised under CECL and IFRS 9 are typically modest and could be easily covered with accumulated retained earnings.

Keywords: expected credit losses, procyclicality, financial stability, IFRS 9, CECL, global financial crisis

JEL Classification: M41, G01, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Sánchez Serrano, Antonio, Credit Losses Under IFRS 9, Regulatory Capital Requirements and Banks’ Profits: A Counterfactual Analysis (September 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
RANK
568,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies