Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Participation in Information Production and Anomaly Returns

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

77 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

AJ Chen

University of British Columbia (UBC)

Gerard Hoberg

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business - Finance and Business Economics Department

Miao Ben Zhang

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business - Finance and Business Economics Department

Date Written: July 21, 2024

Abstract

Financial media frequently report the predictions of institutional investors. Using texts of all Wall Street Journal articles from 1979-2020, we measure the intensity of institutional investors’ participation in news production (InstPred) for each industry.  We show that InstPred (i) predicts more information production about firm fundamentals, (ii) boosts institutional trading on mispricing, and (iii) accelerates the correction of longer-term mispricing by up to 34% to 62%. Our results are reinforced by quasi-exogenous variation in industries' investor-WSJ connections. Overall, our study shows that crowd-sourcing institutional investor participation in news production improves the quality of the information environment in the long term.

Keywords: Media, Crowd Sourcing, WSJ, Institutional Investors, Information Environment, Anomalies

Suggested Citation:

Chen, AJ and Hoberg, Gerard and Zhang, Miao Ben, Institutional Participation in Information Production and Anomaly Returns (July 21, 2024). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
Dilip Abreu , Markus K Brunnermeier
Synchronization risk and delayed arbitrage
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , p. 341 - 360 Posted: 2002
Dilip Abreu , Markus K Brunnermeier
Bubbles and Crashes , volume 71 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2003
Kenneth R Ahern , Denis Sosyura
Who writes the news? corporate press releases during merger negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Byung Ahn , Robert M Hyun , Panos N Bushman , Patatoukas
Under the hood of activist fraud campaigns: Private information quality, disclosure incentives, and stock lending dynamics
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2024
Load more
1 Citations
Wei Jiang , Meng Wang , Baozhong Yang
Artificial Intelligence, Finance, and Sustainability
, p. 33 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
677
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,566
RANK
88,297
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies