Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Intended and Unintended Deterrence Effects of Tax Whistleblower Laws: Evidence From New York’s FCA

52 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2022

Yoojin Lee

California State University, Long Beach

Shaphan Ng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Aruhn Venkat

McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin; University of California, Irvine

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we provide evidence on the deterrence effects of state tax whistleblower laws. We exploit a novel 2010 amendment to New York’s False Claims Acts that explicitly extended whistleblower incentives to corporate income tax whistleblowers. We identify treated firms (firms exposed to New York’s FCA) using establishment-level data and descriptive analyses. Using a traditional difference-in-differences design, we find evidence that New York’s FCA reduced state tax avoidance, consistent with deterrence benefits. In cross-sectional tests, we find that effects are increasing in firms that grant fewer employee stock options and industry regulation, consistent with deterrence increasing in employee and regulator monitoring. We also find evidence that New York’s FCA deterred federal tax avoidance, consistent with positive vertical tax externalities. Next, we focus on particular tax strategies and find evidence of reduced probability of Double Irish tax structures, reduced relationships to tax planning banks, reduced use of special purpose vehicles and reduced outbound tax-motivated income shifting. Finally, we disentangle ex ante deterrence from ex post peer deterrence using hand-collected New York tax whistleblower press releases from the Attorney General. We find evidence of both types of deterrence. Overall, this study provides policy-relevant evidence on the deterrence benefits and externalities of tax whistleblower laws.

Keywords: State tax whistleblower protections, FCAs, deterrence effect, spillover effect, tax externalities, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Yoojin and Ng, Shaphan and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Venkat, Aruhn, The Intended and Unintended Deterrence Effects of Tax Whistleblower Laws: Evidence From New York’s FCA (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
S Aldatmaz , P Ouimet , E D Van Wesep
The option to quit: The effect of employee stock options on turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 151 Posted: 2018
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
S K Ampaabeng , P A Mclaughlin , T Powers
Census of Regulatory Restrictions. Anon. 2010a. Senator Eric. T. Schneiderman Shepherds Historic Anti-Fraud Taxpayer Protection Measure Through Legislature | NY State Senate Posted: 2022
Anon
Sen Schneiderman News Release -7-1-10 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
282,907
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies