Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility towards Environmental Sustainability - A COVID-19 Scenario

http://bulletinmonumental.com/ volume 23, Issue -2, February -2022 http://bulletinmonumental.com/gallery/18-feb2022.pdf

8 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2022

Ravikanth Kuchibhotla

icmai; The Institute of Cost Accountants of India; Gitam University

Dr.Pushia K P

GITAM University

Date Written: September 4, 2022

Abstract

Environmental Sustainability and corporate social responsibility are very significant for an economy. The responsibility of every individual is to conserve natural resources and protect global systems from supporting health and wellbeing, now and in the future is defined through environmental sustainability. Whereas CSR indicates the company’s commitment to practice environmental and social sustainability. The role of CSR activities makes a difference in the pandemic scenario. This paper analyses the relationship between CSR towards environmental Sustainability during the COVID-19 pandemic. The role of CSR spending on Eco-friendly practices increases awareness, supporting sustainable development goals. During this period, the environment had an opportunity to rest & recoup, mitigating the environmental hazards and slowing the progression of climate change impacts. Both concepts are fundamental to the survival of the total ecosystem.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Sustainability, Coronavirus

JEL Classification: Q56, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kuchibhotla, Ravikanth and Kuchibhotla, Ravikanth and K P, Dr.Pushia, Corporate Social Responsibility towards Environmental Sustainability - A COVID-19 Scenario (September 4, 2022). http://bulletinmonumental.com/ volume 23, Issue -2, February -2022 http://bulletinmonumental.com/gallery/18-feb2022.pdf, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4209510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
824
RANK
342,507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies