Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Association of Related Party Transactions with Sensitivity of Investments and External Financing

Bhandari, A., Kohlbeck, M., & Mayhew, B. (2022). Association of related party transactions with sensitivity of investments and external financing. Journal of Corporate Finance, 72, 102146.

Posted: 23 Sep 2022

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Brian W. Mayhew

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We investigate the association of related party transactions (RPTs) with the sensitivity of firm-level capital allocations. We examine whether opportunistic RPTs are associated with investment and external financing sensitivities to both Tobin’s Q and internally generated cash flows. We expect the opportunistic nature of the RPTs dampens the Q sensitivities and increases the cash flow sensitives. We provide evidence that both investment and external debt sensitivities to Q are lower in firms with opportunistic RPTs compared to firms without opportunistic RPTs. Moreover, firms with opportunistic RPTs have higher external equity financing sensitivity to internally generated cash flows. Our results show that opportunistic RPTs are associated with capital allocations. Results are robust to the inclusion of governance attributes. Our study provides further evidence on the opportunistic nature of certain RPTs.

Keywords: Related party transactions, Investments, Efficiency, Investment sensitivity, External financing sensitivity, Capital Allocation

JEL Classification: G31, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Avishek and Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Mayhew, Brian W., Association of Related Party Transactions with Sensitivity of Investments and External Financing (2022). Bhandari, A., Kohlbeck, M., & Mayhew, B. (2022). Association of related party transactions with sensitivity of investments and external financing. Journal of Corporate Finance, 72, 102146., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4209259
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies