Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In the Eyes of the Stakeholders: Performance Implications of Dispersed Corporate Reputations

50 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 26 May 2025

Adnan Yusuf

Deakin University

Ujwal Kayande

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Rajdeep Grewal

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Peter Roberts

Emory University - Department of Organization & Management

Date Written: May 26, 2025

Abstract

Corporate reputation spans multiple dimensions - such as product quality, social responsibility,

financial soundness, management quality - and firms may be viewed favorably on some

dimensions but less so on others. The authors refer to these differences across dimensions as the

firm’s “reputation dispersion” and examine its distinct effects on financial performance. Using a

heteroscedastic modeling approach, they decompose the firm’s financial performance into two

components - level (mean) and reliability (variance) - and propose that reputation dispersion

affects each differently, depending on how stakeholders attend to specific reputation dimensions.

When stakeholders selectively attend to one or two dimensions, reputation dispersion reduces

performance reliability. In contrast, when stakeholders attend to all dimensions, overall

reputation is discounted by the extent of reputation dispersion, thus lowering performance levels.

An analysis of data from 403 publicly listed firms over seven years (2017–2023) provides

empirical support for these effects, with firm visibility moderating the relationships. Because

both lower performance levels and lower reliability also reduce firm value, the findings suggest

that managing reputational consistency across dimensions is critical for sustaining financial

performance and market value.

Keywords: corporate reputation, firm performance, firm visibility, market-based assets, performance variability, reputation dispersion

JEL Classification: M1, M3

Suggested Citation:

Yusuf, Adnan and Kayande, Ujwal and Grewal, Rajdeep and Roberts, Peter, In the Eyes of the Stakeholders: Performance Implications of Dispersed Corporate Reputations (May 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4209429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4209429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
Akdeniz , Roger J Billur , Clay M Calantone , Voorhees
Effectiveness of Marketing Cues on Consumer Perceptions of Quality: The Moderating Roles of Brand Reputation and Third-Party Information
Psychology & Marketing , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 89 Posted: 2013
Lerzan Aksoy , Sandhya Banda , Colleen Harmeling , Timothy L Keiningham , Anita Pansari
Marketing's Role in Multi-Stakeholder Engagement
International Journal of Research in Marketing , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 445 - 461 Posted: 2021
Kenneth J Arrow
The Limits of Organization Posted: 1974
Michael L Barnett , Timothy G Pollock , L Michael , Timothy G Barnett , Pollock
Charting the Landscape of Corporate Reputation Research
The Oxford Handbook of Corporate Reputation , volume 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
667,795
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies