Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Winning an Award Could Set You 'Free': the CFO Labor Market and Financial Reporting Quality

65 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022 Last revised: 14 Mar 2023

Qinxi Wu

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Treating receipt of a national-level CFO award as a shock to awardees’ job-market status, I investigate how CFO labor markets affect firms’ financial reporting quality. I use a regression discontinuity design (RDD) to establish causality. Comparing nominees just above and just below the award cutoff, I show that awardee CFOs have a significantly higher chance of gaining a promotion both outside and within their firms. In the first two years after the award, awardee firms display a substantially smaller magnitude of discretionary accruals than do non-winner nominees. This award effect is significant only in the “powerful CEO” subsample, suggesting that the main channel through which the award affects accruals is the balance of power between CEOs and CFOs in the wake of the award. Moreover, I find no evidence that the award triggers awardee firms to substitute accounting-based earnings management with real earnings management. Overall, my findings suggest that enhancing CFO career opportunities positively impacts financial reporting quality.

Keywords: CFO labor markets, earnings management, regression discontinuity design (RDD), CEO-CFO dynamics, relative power

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Qinxi, Winning an Award Could Set You 'Free': the CFO Labor Market and Financial Reporting Quality (March 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4210788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,146
RANK
405,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies