Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Performance and Corporate Innovation in China: The Moderating Impact of Firm Ownership

Technological Forecasting and Social Change

51 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022

Farid Ullah

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Ping Jiang

School of International Trade and Economics, University of International Business and Economics

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we examine the impact of environmental performance on corporate innovation based on a sample of 11,014 Chinese A-share firm-year observations during the period from 2010 to 2017. Also, we investigate the moderating impact of firm ownership on the above relation. Our results suggest a significant positive association between environmental performance and corporate innovation. By analyzing the moderating effect of ownership structure, our findings suggest that institutional ownership strengthened the positive relation between environmental performance and corporate innovation, while state ownership played a partial role. Our findings are robust for using advanced techniques, such as reverse causality, omitted variable bias, two-stage least square, and propensity score matching. This study contributes to the literature by shedding light on the stakeholder and resource dependence perspectives on the relation between environmental performance and corporate innovation.

Keywords: Environmental performance; corporate innovation; institutional ownership; state ownership; China

Suggested Citation:

Ullah, Farid and Jiang, Ping and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Owusu, Andrews, Environmental Performance and Corporate Innovation in China: The Moderating Impact of Firm Ownership (August 24, 2022). Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies