Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Options Trading and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Penny Pilot Program

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022

Grace Qing Hao

University of Texas at Arlington

Keming Li

Texas A&M University (TAMU) - San Antonio

Date Written: September 5, 2022

Abstract

Using a difference-in-differences approach that relies on the exogenous increase in options trading activity generated by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Penny Pilot Program, we find a negative causal effect of options trading on earnings management. With a reduced magnitude of discretionary accruals, the pilot firms are less likely to marginally beat earnings targets and less likely to have financial misstatements during the pilot period. Cross-sectional analysis shows that the effects are more pronounced among firms with a small or less independent board or a small audit committee. Furthermore, the pilot firms receive more market attention, and their stock price efficiency improves more than the nonpilot firms during the pilot period. The evidence is consistent with the argument that active options trading enhances market scrutiny of firms’ reporting behavior, improving financial reporting quality and price efficiency.

Keywords: Options Market, Trading Volume, Earnings Management, Penny Pilot Program, Discretionary Accruals, Restatements

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Grace Qing and Li, Keming, Options Trading and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Penny Pilot Program (September 5, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
885
RANK
350,629
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies