Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Myopia and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China

26 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2022

cheng zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

cheng liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

yaoying ma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

chunhong yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of managerial myopia on corporate financialization based on the upper echelons and time orientation theories. We examine a sample of 20,914 Chinese A-share non-financial enterprises from 2007 to 2019. The results indicate that managerial myopia can improve the level of corporate financialization. Our findings further reveal that ‘invisible’ supervision represented by analyst attention and institutional investors can weaken the positive relationship between managerial myopia and corporate financialization. At the same time, corporate pressure, which comprises default pressure and competitive pressure, can foster a positive relationship between managerial myopia and corporate financialization. This study provides a novel explanation for corporate financialization based on the characteristics of managers and offers important policy implications for further restraining the trend of corporate financialization and promoting the development of the real economy.

Keywords: corporate financialization, managerial myopia, analyst attention, distance to default

Suggested Citation:

zhang, cheng and liu, cheng and ma, yaoying and yang, chunhong, Managerial Myopia and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
614,231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies