Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross Ownership, "Green" Delegation and Emission Taxation

18 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2022 Last revised: 7 Nov 2022

Haokai Ning

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - Center for Industrial and Business Organization

Leonard F.S. Wang

National University of Kaohsiung

Ji Sun

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 5, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines emission tax policy in the presence of cross ownership and "green" environmental delegation, and it analyzes two different timings of the game to examine whether government should pre-commits emission tax or delays tax decision. We show that higher cross ownership reduces social welfare, total environmental damage, managers’ abatement effort and output, and net emission of firms, while higher cross ownership indicates higher tax rate set by the government and higher incentive schemes chosen by owners. However, an increase in cross ownership lowers (rises, respectively) tax revenue if the government pre-commits (delays, respectively) tax policy. We also show that two different timings of the game yield same level of social welfare, but the government may still opt for delaying its tax decision due to more tax revenue.

Keywords: Cross Ownership, Green Environmental Delegation, Emission Taxation

JEL Classification: H23, L13, M14, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Ning, Haokai and Wang, Leonard F.S. and Sun, Ji, Cross Ownership, "Green" Delegation and Emission Taxation (September 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4210300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
RANK
373,551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies