Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Governance Mechanisms and Corporate Misconduct

IESEG Working Paper Series 2022-ACF-05

46 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2022

Nicolas Eugster

University of Queensland - Business School

Oskar Kowalewski

IESEG School of Management; LEM - CNRS 9221; Polish Academy of Sciences

Piotr Spiewanowski

Polish Academy of Sciences (PAS) - Institute of Economics (INE PAN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 6, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to provide new evidence linking internal corporate governance mechanisms and corporate misconduct, using a sample of 2,844 public US companies during the period 2007-2019. The results reveal that optimal size and diverse boards, including well-functioning audit committees, are negatively related to corporate violations. In contrast, we show that board members’ independence, activity, and ownership are positively related to a firm’s fraudulent activities. Therefore, not all internal governance mechanisms are related to lower corporate misconduct. Moreover, we show that some internal governance mechanisms, such as the share of female board members, mitigate only certain types of corporate misconduct.

Keywords: corporate misconduct, internal governance mechanisms, board of directors, committees ownership

JEL Classification: G01, G34, G38, K22, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eugster, Nicolas and Kowalewski, Oskar and Spiewanowski, Piotr, Internal Governance Mechanisms and Corporate Misconduct (September 6, 2022). IESEG Working Paper Series 2022-ACF-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4211747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4211747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
246,297
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies