Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impression Management in Bankruptcy: An Analysis of the Narratives in Listed Companies

Moreno, A. and Camacho-Miñano, M.M. (2024) Impression management in bankruptcy: An analysis of the narratives in listed companies, Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review, 27(1), pp. 160-173

26 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2022 Last revised: 8 Jan 2024

Alonso Moreno

University of Jaén

Maria‐del‐Mar Camacho‐Miñano

- Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

Managers tend to use opportunistically corporate narrative disclosure when financial performance is poor. However, there is little research on impression management in situations of extreme distress, such as bankruptcy. This paper analyzes ten textual characteristics of corporate reports at two moments in time, the last year just before entering the legal bankruptcy procedure (sick year) and five years earlier (healthy year). Specifically, it investigates the management reports of all bankrupt listed companies in Spain from 2005 to 2019. Our findings near bankruptcy only show behavior that may be compatible with impression management in relation to length and positive language. Litigation risk associated with bankruptcy may condition managers’ attitudes to using narratives in a self-serving manner. Our results are also robust if we only test the most financially distressed bankrupt companies. This paper contributes to the understanding of impression management in companies in conditions of extreme financial distress.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Business failure, Impression management, Litigation risk, Narratives

JEL Classification: G41, K41, L21, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Moreno, Alonso and Camacho-Miñano, María-del-Mar, Impression Management in Bankruptcy: An Analysis of the Narratives in Listed Companies ( 2024). Moreno, A. and Camacho-Miñano, M.M. (2024) Impression management in bankruptcy: An analysis of the narratives in listed companies, Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review, 27(1), pp. 160-173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4212301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 4/5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
W Aerts , P Cheng
Causal disclosures on earnings and earnings management in an IPO setting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 431 - 459 Posted: 2011
W Aerts , A Tarca
Financial performance explanations and institutional setting
Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 421 - 450 Posted: 2010
W Aerts , B Yan
Rhetorical impression management in the letter to shareholders and institutional setting: A metadiscourse perspective
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 404 - 432 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies