Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the PCAOB’s Emphasis on Management Review Controls Improve Financial Reporting Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairments

66 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 25 Jul 2025

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Chris E. Hogan

Michigan State University; Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Jennifer Puccia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether PCAOB inspection scrutiny of the audit of management review controls (MRCs) affects financial reporting decisions. Using the goodwill impairment setting, we find that the extent of PCAOB MRC inspection deficiencies related to goodwill a firm’s auditor receives is positively associated with the probability a firm records a goodwill impairment when impairment is more likely based on book value in excess of market value but not when there is no public indicator of the need for impairment. Further, the effect is more apparent when inspection scrutiny is more likely to lead to changes to the design or implementation of an internal control (i.e., when MRC goodwill deficiencies occur for more than one year and when deficiencies relate to the auditor’s assessment of the level of “precision” of the MRC). We observe some evidence that MRC inspection deficiencies lead to an increase in the likelihood of impairment when book value is in excess of market value even when the MRC deficiencies are not specifically related to goodwill, indicating that a broad focus on improving the audit of MRCs can affect financial reporting decisions in other areas. 

Keywords: Management review controls; internal controls; PCAOB inspections; goodwill impairment; financial reporting decisions

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Hogan, Chris E. and Hogan, Chris E. and Puccia, Jennifer, Does the PCAOB’s Emphasis on Management Review Controls Improve Financial Reporting Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairments (September 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4212680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4212680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
L J Abbott , C Boland , S Mccarthy , L Swenson
The association between PCAOB revenue-deficient audit engagements and revenue quality
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2025
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
The impact of the PCAOB triennial inspection process on inspection year and non-inspection year audits
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2021
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , A E Haddad
The value relevance of goodwill impairments: UK evidence
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 206 - 216 Posted: 2012
Negative stockholders' equity definition
Accounting Tools Posted: 2022-07-21
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
310,156
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies