Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Venture Capital and Private M&A Contracting

48 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2022

Lauren Vollon

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the role of venture capital (VC) firms in private mergers and acquisitions (M&A) contracting, particularly in reducing information asymmetry. Analyzing a proprietary dataset of 851 startup acquisitions from 2015 to 2020, I find that M&A contracts are significantly less likely to include earnouts, mechanisms designed to mitigate information asymmetry, when a VC is involved in the transaction. Further analysis reveals that earnouts are more likely in transactions with high information asymmetry between the VC and the buyer. The study also examines the effect of prior relationships between VCs and buyers, showing that these connections not only increase the chances of repeat transactions but also further reduce the reliance on earnouts. These findings suggest that VCs play a crucial role in mitigating information asymmetry, reducing the need for earnouts, and ultimately improving M&A outcomes.

Keywords: Venture capital, private M&A, contracts, asymmetric information, adverse selection, earnouts, relationships

JEL Classification: D82, G24, G34, L14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Vollon, Lauren, Venture Capital and Private M&A Contracting (August 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4212510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4212510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and Private Information in Lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
G A Akerlof
4. the market for 'lemons': quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Market Failure or Success , volume 66 Posted: 1970
T W Bates , J B Neyland , Y Y Wang
Financing Acquisitions with Earnouts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , p. 374 - 395 Posted: 2018
L A Bebchuk
The case for increasing shareholder power
Harv. L. Rev , volume 118 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,382
RANK
280,604
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies