Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Financing and Performance of Indigenous Oil and Gas Firms: An Empirical Study of Selected Marginal Oil Fields in Nigeria

24 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Otonye Spiff

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Boniface A. Oriji

affiliation not provided to SSRN

edwinah amah

University of Port Harcourt

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between debt finance and Marginal fields performance in Nigeria. Feasible generalized least square and fixed effects methods were used to analyze data from 2011 to 2021. Return on Asset and Return on Equity were explained variables. Debt indicators are Long term and short-term debts. Size and taxation were control variables. Findings show LTD and STD have inverse and significant impact on performance. Equity was preferred to debt finance as high debt policy, lower performance. Recommend managers and owners of fields to focus on strategic debt policy to enhance the performance and value of firms.

Keywords: Debt financing, Firm performance, Marginal oil fields, ROA, ROE

Suggested Citation:

Spiff, Otonye and Oriji, Boniface A. and amah, edwinah, Debt Financing and Performance of Indigenous Oil and Gas Firms: An Empirical Study of Selected Marginal Oil Fields in Nigeria. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies