Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR variability, managerial risk aversion, and hostile takeover threats

47 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2022

Tanakorn Likitapiwat

Chulalongkorn University

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: September 8, 2022

Abstract

The quiet life hypothesis argues that, when managers are insulated from the discipline of the takeover market, they tend to be less ambitious, avoiding risky and complex investments that require more managerial time and efforts. In other words, they prefer to live a “quiet life”. Exploiting a distinctive measure of takeover vulnerability principally based on the staggered passage of state legislations, we investigate the quiet life hypothesis using corporate social performance. Our results show that more takeover exposure significantly raises CSR variability, consistent with the prediction of the quiet life hypothesis, where managers adopt riskier CSR strategies and investments when they are more exposed to takeover threats, resulting in higher CSR volatility. Specifically, an increase in takeover exposure by one standard deviation raises CSR variability by 5.23%-6.73%. Additional analysis corroborates the results, including propensity score matching, instrumental-variable analysis, Lewbel’s (2012) heteroscedastic identification, and entropy balancing.

Keywords: quiet life hypothesis, corporate social responsibility, the takeover market, mergers and acquisitions, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Likitapiwat, Tanakorn and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Jiraporn, Pornsit, CSR variability, managerial risk aversion, and hostile takeover threats (September 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies