Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Waste Disclosure Waste?

19 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Min Bai

University of Waikato - Management School

Avijit Dasgupta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Does waste disclosure really work? This study investigates the effect of waste disclosure on corporate governance. The results highlight a significant and positive relationship among board gender, independent board directors, sustainability committee, and verification of waste disclosure. Dividing the whole sample into firms with low and high (i) size (ii) leverage (iii) Roa, we find board gender and independence of board directors are significant in firms with low profit and high leverage, among others. Overall, our study provides new insight into this emerging literature and the findings are consistent with the agency theory and stakeholder theory.

Keywords: Waste disclosure, Corporate governance, Board gender, Sustainability Committee, S&P 500 firms

Suggested Citation:

Bai, Min and Dasgupta, Avijit, Does Waste Disclosure Waste?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
358
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies