Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards and Bonds in Bad Times

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Sattar Mansi

Virginia Tech

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Hyo Jin Yoon

University of Texas at El Paso

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 8, 2022

Abstract

We study how the heterogeneity between the CEO and independent board directors as a group stemming from cultural diversity affects debt pricing in bad times. Using a novel approach to identify directors’ cultural backgrounds based on their ancestral origins, we find that greater CEO–independent director cultural distance attenuates the adverse effect of economic policy uncertainty on yield spreads. Importantly, these positive outcomes exist beyond the presence of other external monitors―Big 4 auditors, financial analysts, and long-term institutional investors―CEO age, gender, financial expertise, and social ties distance, and when the independent directors are non-coopted. We also find that cultural distance between the audit committee and the CEO is associated with lower yield spreads in bad times. The results suggest that changes in bondholders’ assessment of firm performance during periods of high policy uncertainty is a function of differences in cultural backgrounds between the CEO and independent directors.

Keywords: Economic policy uncertainty; Corporate governance; Board monitoring; Cultural diversity; Cultural distance; Cost of debt

JEL Classification: G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Mansi, Sattar and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yoon, Hyo Jin, Boards and Bonds in Bad Times (September 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213696
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies