Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the Impact of Iso14001 Implementation on Financial Performance Be Measured Using Roa and Roe?

1 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Tom G. Geurts

Bucknell University

Beate Klingenberg

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jaret Edwards

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Previous studies that tried to answer which impact ISO 14001 certification has on the financial performance of those firms that implement it, have used different methodology and different measures of financial performance. In addition, when using one particular methodology, namely the event study, studies have used different matching procedures to choose firm pairs that were used in the analysis. This paper reports the results of a newly created dataset, using the event study and non-parametric tests that were most appropriate for this type of analysis and Return on Assets (= ROA) and Return on Equity (= ROE) to measure the financial impact of ISO 14001 certification on firm performance. It is found that there is no impact of certification on financial performance, neither positive nor negative, and that the matching procedure matters. However, analyzing these results further, allows for different interpretation that may question the suitability of the metrics and method used.

Keywords: ISO14001, financial performance, ROA, ROE, firm matching procedure, event study, non-parametric testing

Suggested Citation:

Geurts, Tom G. and Klingenberg, Beate and Edwards, Jaret, Can the Impact of Iso14001 Implementation on Financial Performance Be Measured Using Roa and Roe?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
RANK
864,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies