Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Audits and the Policing of Corporate Taxes: Insights from Tax Executives

Forthcoming in Contemporary Accounting Research

62 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 22 Apr 2025

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Roshan K. Sinha

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: March 25, 2024

Abstract

We interview public company tax executives to provide new evidence on how corporate taxpayers experience and navigate the income tax audit process. Interviewees describe being “targeted” by “tax police” and having to “defend” their positions. Thus, we adopt a structural metaphor of tax audits as police investigations and use a framework from the policing literature to explain what influences taxpayers’ perceptions of fairness during audits. Perceptions of fairness are important as targets of investigations are more likely to cooperate and accept outcomes when they perceive policing processes as fair. Tax executives aim to obtain fair and consistent treatment by compiling documentation, consulting with peers and external advisors, and educating tax agents. Audits are adversarial, however, and taxpayers also act strategically to secure favorable outcomes and appeal or litigate when they believe outcomes are unfair. Interviewees note variation in the extent to which tax authorities create frameworks that facilitate fair audit processes and whether tax agents implement these frameworks. Our study offers new insights into the tax audit process from corporate taxpayers’ perspectives. First, public company taxpayers view tax audits as redundant to financial statement audits of their tax positions. Thus, tax audits may have limited scope to deter tax noncompliance. Second, tax executives are not passive actors; they take deliberate actions to shape audit outcomes. Third, audits are less efficient for everyone when taxpayers perceive them as procedurally unfair. Investments by tax authorities that increase perceptions of fairness may enhance audit efficiency by increasing taxpayers’ cooperation and acceptance of outcomes.

Keywords: tax authorities, tax enforcement, tax audit process, tax executives, tax agents, policing

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Seidman, Jeri K. and Sinha, Roshan and Stomberg, Bridget, Tax Audits and the Policing of Corporate Taxes: Insights from Tax Executives (March 25, 2024). Forthcoming in Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213689 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
W Alissa , V Capkun , T Jeanjean , N Suca
An empirical investigation of the impact of audit and auditor characteristics on auditor performance
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 39 , issue 7 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2014
M Anesa , N Gillespie , A P Spee , K Sadiq
The legitimation of corporate tax minimization
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 75 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2019-05
T J Atwood , M Drake , J Myers , L Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,399
RANK
211,569
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies