Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in Family Firms: Evidence from China

Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, Forthcoming

19 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Liangbo Ma

University of Wollongong, School of Business

Date Written: July 26, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether family firms differ from nonfamily firms in their corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting practice. Using a sample of Chinese firms, we find that, compared to nonfamily firms, family firms are more likely to have a system in place that guides the establishment and development of their CSR activities. Family firms are also more likely to adopt the GRI guidelines, and they disclose significantly more information about their CSR practice. The findings are consistent with the notion that family firms are more long-term oriented, and as a result, they are more concerned about firm reputation and use CSR disclosure as a means to establish and maintain a good reputation and to legitimize their behavior. We further find that the positive relation between family firms and CSR disclosure exists mainly in those firms with relative high state ownership, which helps mitigate government expropriation risk. Our research contributes to the limited literature on the relation between family firms and CSR practice. We also contribute to the literature on the impact of government expropriation risk and its interaction with firm ownership structure on firm behavior.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Family firms, Information disclosure, State ownership

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Liangbo, Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting in Family Firms: Evidence from China (July 26, 2022). Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4214988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J S Adams , A Taschian , T H Shore
Ethics in family and nonfamily owned firms: An exploratory study
Family Business Review , volume 9 , p. 157 - 170 Posted: 1996
B Amann , J Jaussaud , I Martinez
Corporate social responsibility in Japan: Family and nonfamily business differences and determinants
Asian Business & Management , volume 11 , p. 329 - 345 Posted: 2012
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
M Becker , A Cardazzi , Z Mcgurk
Employee satisfaction and stock returns during COVID-19 Pandemic
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 33 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Fuwei Jiang , zhining zhang , Ding Hui , shan zhang
Managerial Myopia and Corporate Social Responsibility：Evidence from the Textual Analysis of Chinese Earnings Communication Conferences
JBEF-D-23-00186 · 44 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Asif Huq , Katarzyna Cieslak , Klas Sundberg
Board governance drivers of corporate sustainability levels in private firms: evidence from Sweden
27 Pages · Posted: 30 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 10 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
448,944
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies