Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Loans, Trade Credit, and Liquidity Shortages of Small Businesses During the Global Financial Crisis

41 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2022

Daisuke Tsuruta

Nihon University - College of Economics

Abstract

We investigate how small businesses respond to liquidity shortages during the financial crisis, focusing on heterogeneity between young and mature firms. With the sudden onset of the financial crisis, many small businesses faced declines in cash flows and liquidity shortages. Using over 4 million firm-year observations from Japan, we show that mature firms use bank loans more than young firms when facing liquidity shortages. This is consistent with previous studies indicating that banks offer liquidity provisions to firms with which they have close lending relationships. In contrast, trade payables did not increase for mature firms or young firms during the crisis period. This suggests that mature firms relied on banks, not suppliers, for liquidity provision during the crisis. Furthermore, mature firms that experienced declines in cash flow during and after the crisis were likely to default and exit. This implies that credit allocation to mature firms is inefficient.

Keywords: small business, bank loan, trade credit, liquidity shortage, firm age

Suggested Citation:

Tsuruta, Daisuke, Bank Loans, Trade Credit, and Liquidity Shortages of Small Businesses During the Global Financial Crisis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies