Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Network and Corporate Social Responsibility:A Perspective of Interlocking Directorates

44 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2022

Tianjiao Zhao

University of Science and Technology Beijing

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the role of the corporate social network (CSN) derived from interlocking directors on a firm’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) and further investigate the moderating role of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) in the institutional background of China. Empirical results show that an advantageous network position in a CSN can significantly encourage firms to undertake CSR. However, the effect is a non-linear one. The increase in CSR is at a decreasing rate as CSN increases. More specifically, the more central a firm is within a network, its CSR performance is better. Further, the positive effect of the CSN on CSR is less salient when EPU is high. The research guides managers on using the advantages of firms in CSNs better and actively undertake CSR to improve social and environmental sustainability substantially. In addition, this study helps a government to issue reasonable CSR evaluation standards and incentive policies and stabilize macroeconomic policies.

Keywords: Corporate social network, Corporate social responsibility, Interlocking directorates, Economic Policy uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Tianjiao and Chan, Johnny, Corporate Social Network and Corporate Social Responsibility:A Perspective of Interlocking Directorates. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
635,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies