Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Managers' Perspectives on Forward-Looking Guidance: Survey Evidence

68 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2022 Last revised: 12 Feb 2024

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Douglas J. Skinner

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

David Volant

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: July 29, 2024

Abstract

We survey corporate managers of both guiding and non-guiding firms. We find that managers of firms that provide guidance say that they: (1) primarily provide guidance to satisfy analyst and investor demands and manage analysts' earnings expectations; (2) are relatively unconcerned about proprietary or litigation costs (managers of non-guiding firms are more likely to see litigation risk as a concern); (3) predominantly issue guidance that is conservative relative to their internal expectations; (4) are concerned that guidance induces analysts and investors to focus on the short-term but not that it induces managers themselves to make myopic decisions internally. We also find that managers are miscalibrated about the accuracy of their guidance and that significant quantities of guidance that managers say their firms issue are not captured by conventional sources. We offer several other new insights relevant to the voluntary disclosure literature.

Keywords: JEL Classification: D80, D82, G14, G17, M40, M41 guidance, forward-looking information, voluntary disclosure, miscalibration, management forecasts, myopia

JEL Classification: D80, D82, G14, G17, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Hribar, Paul and Skinner, Douglas J. and Volant, David, Corporate Managers' Perspectives on Forward-Looking Guidance: Survey Evidence (July 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4214740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A Aaron , J Kang , J Ng , T O Rusticus
Withdrawal of Management Guidance During the COVID-19 Pandemic Posted: 2021
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,531
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,576
RANK
28,141
10 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies