Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Environment and Interfirm Alliance

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Nov 2022

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Rong (Irene) Zhong

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 2, 2022

Abstract

Interfirm alliances require effective mechanisms that facilitate the integration of pertinent knowledge between independent firms. This paper examines whether a firm’s information environment helps improve collaborative outcomes. Using a large panel of firms engaging in global research and development (R&D) collaboration, we find that firms with better information environments are associated with a higher level of collaborative outputs and a broader scope of collaborative networks. The improvements in collaborative outcomes are more pronounced when alliance partners have a greater reliance on informal relationships instead of formal contracts. Further analysis shows that a better information environment helps foster a more durable relationship between partners. Lastly, a path analysis shows that facilitating interfirm collaboration is one of the main channels through which transparency boosts a firm’s innovative productivity. Overall, our findings suggest that the quality of a firm’s information environment plays a crucial role in sustaining efficient relational contracting in interfirm alliances.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Intellectual Property, Business Network, Strategic Alliances, Relational Contracting, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: D83, G30, M41, L14

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Feng and Zhong, Rong (Irene), Information Environment and Interfirm Alliance (September 2, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4215844
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies