Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Audit Opinion Shopping Priced in the Debt Market?

15 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2022

Heesun Chung

Hanyang University

Jaehee Jo

Seoul National University

Catherine Heyjung Sonu

Kookmin University - College of Business and Economics; Korea National Open University - Department of Management

Abstract

We examine the relation between a firm’s opportunistic auditor switch for a favorable audit opinion, namely opinion shopping (OS) behavior, and the cost of debt. Using Korean listed firms for the period 2005-2020, we find that firms engaging in OS exhibit a higher cost of debt. This result remains robust to possible endogeneity concerns. We find that the negative consequences of OS in the debt market are more pronounced for firms with weaker governance and higher information asymmetry. Overall, our evidence suggests that OS is an important factor that debt market participants incorporate when assessing a firm’s credit risk.

Keywords: Cost of debt, credit risk, opinion shopping, external auditor, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Heesun and Jo, Jaehee and Sonu, Catherine Heyjung, Is Audit Opinion Shopping Priced in the Debt Market?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4215251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies