Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Public Companies Go Private? The Case of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange

26 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 17 Oct 2022

Andile Nikani

Takeover Regulation Panel

Mike Holland

University of Pretoria

Date Written: September 10, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the decline in the number of listed companies on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange by focusing on voluntary decisions to “go private.” It contributes to the important and ongoing debate in the economics and corporate finance literature on the relationship between the ownership structure of a firm and its performance. The research outcomes show clearly that voluntary delistings from the JSE could not be pinned onto one possible cause. We concluded that the lack of financial visibility and transaction costs are by far the most impactful causes of delistings from the JSE between 2012 and 2021. It is also clear from the research that the companies most affected by the causes for delistings on the JSE have a small to medium market capitalisation, which is estimated to be below R10 billion. We conclude that the problem rests with the structure of the market within which certain firms that are listed on the JSE operate. We further conclude that the JSE is no longer an exchange for companies that have a small to medium market capitalisation.

Keywords: Listings, delistings, drivers for delistings, public companies go private, private equity, incentives for listing, JSE, South African exchanges, capital markets, emerging markets, stock exchanges and IPOs

Suggested Citation:

Nikani, Andile and Holland, Mike, Why Do Public Companies Go Private? The Case of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (September 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4215503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4215503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
634
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,495
RANK
96,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies