Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Sue or Not to Sue?: Foreign-Sounding CEO Name and Classactionlawsuits

120 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2022 Last revised: 21 May 2024

Arati Kale

Providence College - School of Business

Devendra Kale

University of Rhode Island

Gajanan Ganji

University of Chicago

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate if the perceived name-based ethnicity of CEOs has any relationship with the likelihood of shareholder class-action lawsuits. Using machine learning algorithms on CEO names, we develop an objective proxy of name-based ethnicity and find that, firms managed by ‘foreign-sounding’ CEOs exhibit a lower likelihood of class-action lawsuits. Our results are robust to matched sample analysis, Heckman two-stage selection, alternate model specifications as well as use of an alternate proxy. We further find that succession of a foreignsounding CEO by a non-foreign-sounding CEO increases the likelihood of class-actionlawsuits. Our paper has important implications for firms, especially in high litigation industries or high litigation situations.

Keywords: diversity, class-action lawsuits, CEOs

Suggested Citation:

Kale, Arati and Kale, Devendra and Ganji, Gajanan, To Sue or Not to Sue?: Foreign-Sounding CEO Name and Classactionlawsuits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4216627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4216627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
642
RANK
791,953
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies