Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading of Emission Allowances and Reporting Incentives

IESE Business School Working Paper

Forthcoming: Journal of Accounting & Economics

92 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Donald N'Gatta

MDE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Robert A. Raney

IESE Business School; University of Washington

Date Written: May 09, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the role of reporting incentives on the trading of emission allowances. Our tests are based on a wide international sample of firms and data from the European Union Emission Trading System (EU ETS), which is the most liquid and developed in the world. We find evidence consistent with the notion that excess allowances combined with historical cost accounting for emission rights provide firms the opportunity to obtain a reporting benefit from selling emission allowances. We observe more frequent selling of allowances when the transactions are likely to boost earnings to avoid accounting losses. The documented trading activity increases in the ETS market towards the end of the year and is associated with selling imbalance and effects on carbon pricing, which in turn affect firms’ emission abatement incentives. Our results have implications for the debate on the institutional design of carbon markets and on the need to define an accounting standard for emission allowances.

Keywords: Emission Trading, Emission Allowance, Pollution Pricing, Reporting Incentives, Financial and Climate Accounting

JEL Classification: M10, M41, Q50

Suggested Citation:

N'GATTA, DONALD and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Raney, Robert A., Trading of Emission Allowances and Reporting Incentives (May 09, 2025). IESE Business School Working Paper , Forthcoming: Journal of Accounting & Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4216364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4216364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J Abrell
Database for the European Union Transaction Log
M Alonso , M Jacob , G Ormazabal , R Raney
Cross-border carbon taxes and shareholder wealth Posted: 2024
P André
The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting rules-evidence from European countries
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
F Antoniou , M Delis , S Ongena , C Tsoumas
Pollution permits and financing costs
Swiss Finance Posted: 2020-12-18
Load more
1 Citations
HENRY L. FRIEDMAN , GAIZKA ORMAZABAL
The Role of Information in Building a More Sustainable Economy: A Supply and Demand Perspective
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1575 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
RANK
129,029
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies