Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Wedge Size Matter? Financial Reporting Quality and Effective Regulation of Dual-Class Firms

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 54, 2023

22 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022 Last revised: 13 Jul 2023

Rimona Palas

College of Law and Business

Dov Solomon

College of Law and Business - Ramat Gan Law School

Dalit Gafni

College of Management (Israel)

Ido Baum

Haim Striks Faculty of Law - College of Management

Date Written: September 13, 2022

Abstract

Dual-class capital structures create a gap (“wedge”) between voting and cash flow rights. Our analysis indicates that the larger the wedge, the higher the quality of financial reporting, reflecting a tradeoff between the dilution of voting rights and enhancement of the credibility of information provided to investors. It suggests that increasing management’s insulation from the market for corporate control is stronger than agency costs, reducing motivation to manipulate earnings. Moreover, better quality reporting allows for attracting second-class investors who agree to a larger wedge. Therefore, concerning financial reporting, a nuanced regulation restricting wedge size may not be more effective.

Keywords: Dual-class, earnings quality, financial reports, disclosure, corporate governance, wedge

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Palas, Rimona and Solomon, Dov and Gafni, Dalit and Baum, Ido, Does Wedge Size Matter? Financial Reporting Quality and Effective Regulation of Dual-Class Firms (September 13, 2022). Finance Research Letters, Vol. 54, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4217935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
H Almeida
Is it Time to Get Rid of Earnings-Per-Share (EPS)? Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 8 , p. 174 - 206 Posted: 2019
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V Nikolaev
Accruals, Cash Flows, and Operating Profitability in the Cross Section of Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 45 Posted: 2016
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S L Tsui
Discretionary-Accruals Models and Audit Qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
298,527
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies