Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Business Trainings for Audit Committees Matter in Organizations? Focusing on Earnings Management

14 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022

Bomi Song

Gachon University

Heesun Chung

Hanyang University

Bum-Joon Kim

The Catholic University of Korea - School of Business Administration

Catherine Heyjung Sonu

Kookmin University - College of Business and Economics; Korea National Open University - Department of Management

Abstract

This paper examines whether the increase in financial literacy of audit committee (AC) members induced by business trainings leads to the decrease in firms’ earnings management. Using a novel hand-collected dataset of Korean listed companies for the period of 2018–2020, we find that business trainings increase the effectiveness of ACs by enhancing the ability to detect earnings management. Also, our results reveal that the positive effect of business trainings is more pronounced for AC members who lack financial literacy, which suggests that training programs are effective for less financially sophisticated members.

Keywords: Business training, audit committee, earnings management, financial literacy, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Song, Bomi and Chung, Heesun and Kim, Bum-Joon and Sonu, Catherine Heyjung, Do Business Trainings for Audit Committees Matter in Organizations? Focusing on Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4218014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies