Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Banking Deregulation on Borrowing Firms’ Risk-Taking Incentives

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2023

Daniel A. Bens

University of New Hampshire, Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics, Students

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Barbara Su

George Mason University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 4, 2022

Abstract

We examine how regulatory restrictions on capital market activity affect the compensation contracting environment within firms. This study aims to expand our understanding of how financial market development affects firm risk-taking via management compensation designs. Specifically, taking advantage of the staggered implementation of the Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (IBBEA), which increases bank competition and loan geographical diversification, this study examines how borrowing firms’ compensation structures change when banks increase risk tolerance in their loan portfolios. Using hand-collected compensation data of firms with market capitalization less than $75 million, we hypothesize and find that borrowing firms are likely to increase risk incentives after IBBEA and that this increase is more pronounced for firms located in states with less banking competition in the pre-IBBEA period. We also show the findings to be more significant for borrowers whose lenders acquire more diversification benefits after IBBEA. These findings suggest that following deregulation, when banks face increased competition as well as an enhanced ability to diversify their credit risk geographically, these same banks tend to increase their tolerance for borrowers’ risk-taking. That is, their clients —nonfinancial firms borrowing from them—adjust their compensation contracts that are previously constrained by bank distaste for risk. We also document that firms that increase their risk incentives the most invest more in R&D, suggesting that management compensation is a complementary channel through which IBBEA affects firm innovation.

Keywords: banking, deregulation, risk-taking, compensation, IBBEA, innovation

Suggested Citation:

Bens, Daniel A. and Liao, Scott and Su, Barbara, The Effect of Banking Deregulation on Borrowing Firms’ Risk-Taking Incentives (September 4, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies