Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Variations in the Corporate Social Responsibility-Performance Relationship in Emerging Market Firms

Forthcoming in Organization Science

38 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2022

Alvaro Cuervo-Cazurra

Northeastern University (USA) - Department of International Business and Strategy

Saptarshi Purkayastha

Indiana University, Indianapolis

Kannan Ramaswamy

Thunderbird School of Global Management

Date Written: September 13, 2022

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and its impact on performance have generated a debate that has evolved across several perspectives (shareholder, stakeholder, resource-based, and contingency). Building on the resource-based and contingency perspectives, we shed new light on this debate by analyzing the impact of CSR on performance in emerging market firms, advancing the idea that CSR is a mechanism that helps address market failures. We first argue that CSR’s three constituent dimensions (environmental, social, and governance) vary in their impact on performance because each dimension has a different mitigating effect on market failures that hobble emerging market firms. Specifically, we contend that social CSR has a larger effect on performance than either governance CSR or environmental CSR for emerging market firms, because the former helps build capabilities that more directly reduce the negative consequences of government failures in the provision of public goods and services that firms need to operate efficiently. We then provide additional depth to this idea by arguing that other mechanisms used for mitigating market failures in an emerging market context, namely firm-level business group affiliation and country-level government policy nudges, strengthen this differential influence of each of the three dimensions of CSR on performance. Analyses of a sample of 89 publicly traded Indian firms from 2007 to 2017 support these arguments.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, business groups, policy, market failures, institutional economics, emerging markets

JEL Classification: L2, M1

Suggested Citation:

Cuervo-Cazurra, Alvaro and Purkayastha, Saptarshi and Ramaswamy, Kannan, Variations in the Corporate Social Responsibility-Performance Relationship in Emerging Market Firms (September 13, 2022). Forthcoming in Organization Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4219248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,990
RANK
159,842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies