Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality of Governance, Opportunity Costs, and CEO Compensation Structure

43 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2022 Last revised: 31 Oct 2022

Xingjian Zhang

Stevens Institute fo Technology

Date Written: September 14, 2022

Abstract

In the past two decades, increasing the influence of common shareholders has become a touchstone of good governance and shareholder democracy across the globe. Institutional activism combined with major regulatory overhauls has led shareholders to play a more active role in corporate decision-making. Yet, there are only a handful of studies that examine the role of corporate governance on a CEO’s opportunity costs to sell her holdings. In this paper, we provide evidence that quality of governance helps to explain a significant amount of variation in CEO ownership and the compensation structure. We argue that exogenous improvements in governance standards reduce the CEO’s costs to sell her shares because the market puts a higher weight on liquidity-related sales relative to private information-related sales. We find that CEO ownership level is strongly negatively related to the quality of corporate governance. Further, we argue that higher liquidation of shareholdings lowers the CEO’s wealth-performance sensitivity; hence, the compensation committee needs to give more incentive compensation to keep the wealth-performance sensitivity at the optimal level. We find that CEO incentive intensity is positively associated with the quality of corporate governance. Thus, we find that CEOs get more stakes in the firm, but CEOs choose to hold a lower stake in their portfolio. We use the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (henceforth, SOX) as a quasi-natural experiment to mitigate the causality concern between corporate governance, CEO’s stick ownership, and compensation structure. As a robustness test, we check that CEOs, under good governance, have higher yearly share sales. This effect is positively related to CEOs' tenure and negatively related to the size of the firm. However, we show that even if they earn higher incentive compensation, CEOs with lower stock ownership have lower wealth-performance sensitivity compared to CEOs with higher stock ownership. Our results have important implications for contracting mechanisms related to mitigating agency problems.

Keywords: CEO Ownership, CEO Compensation, Corporate Governance, SOX

JEL Classification: M12, M52, G34, I10

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Xingjian, Quality of Governance, Opportunity Costs, and CEO Compensation Structure (September 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4219259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
564,093
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies