Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Restrictions and Real Activities Earnings Management: International Evidence

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol. 80, 2022

47 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2022

Fang Hu

Griffith University - The Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Yuanto Kusnadi

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Yujie Wang

Central South University

Date Written: September 15, 2022

Abstract

We examine the implications of insider trading restrictions on firms’ real activities earnings management in an international setting. Using a sample of 28 countries over the period from 1992 to 2007, we find evidence that is supportive of the substitution hypothesis, in that managers have incentives to substitute accruals earnings management for real activities earnings management. This effect is found to be more pronounced for firms in countries with more restrictive insider trading regulation. Our result is robust to alternative measures of real activities earnings management and insider trading restrictions, alternative sub-samples, alternative regression specifications, and controlling for endogeneity. In addition, we find that the reinforcing role played by insider trading restrictions on the substitution effect is stronger for firms in common law countries than in civil law countries. Overall, our results are important in highlighting the role of insider trading restrictions in shaping corporate financial reporting policies. In particular, we find strong evidence to suggest that the extent of restriction of such laws influence managerial incentives to engage in earnings manipulation through real activities.

Keywords: Insider trading laws, Real earnings management, Substitution effect

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Fang and Kusnadi, Yuanto and Wang, Jiwei and Wang, Yujie, Insider Trading Restrictions and Real Activities Earnings Management: International Evidence (September 15, 2022). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol. 80, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
RANK
730,194
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies