Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Rights, Access to Finance, and Stock Price Crash Risk

Posted: 28 Sep 2022

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Shushu Liao

Kuehne Logistics University

Yangke Liu

Queen's Management School

Date Written: September 15, 2022

Abstract

We examine the relation between creditor rights and stock price crash risk by exploiting the staggered enactment of anti-recharacterization laws that gives lenders greater access to the collateral and thus strengthens creditor rights. We find robust evidence that stock price crash risk subsides following the adoption of the laws. The evidence suggests that the strengthened creditor rights after the law enactment increase the borrowing firm’s debt capacity and reduce the amounts of assets subjugated to corporate managers, thereby restricting managers’ incentives and abilities to hoard bad news. We also find that the negative relation is highly concentrated in firms with higher degree of bank finance dependence and financial constraints, and in poorly governed firms.

Keywords: Crash risk, Anti-recharacterization laws, Bad news hoarding, Capital markets, Creditor rights, Principal-agent conflicts, Corporate governance, Financial constraints

JEL Classification: G14; G21; G30; G33; K22

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Liao, Shushu and Liu, Yangke, Creditor Rights, Access to Finance, and Stock Price Crash Risk (September 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4219876
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies