Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Disclosure Isn’t Enough: Evidence on Cursedness in Betting Markets

43 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2022

Darren Bernard

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Madi Kapparov

London Business School

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

John Wertz

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 15, 2022

Abstract

The SEC recently proposed new restrictions and expanded disclosures to combat insider trading abuses. We examine the effects of analogous regulatory interventions related to ownership sales in thoroughbred horse betting, a market with numerous parallels to capital markets. Drawing on the “cursedness” literature, we predict and find that bettors underreact to the negative information contained in disclosures of an owner’s decision to offer an asset for sale, implying transparency alone is insufficient to foster efficient markets. Rather, only heavy-handed regulation, which restricts owners’ ability to exploit their private information, eliminates mispricing of the for-sale signal. Our results contribute to the regulatory debate on which interventions are most likely to promote price efficiency and shed new light on the asset- and regulation-specific factors that contribute to cursedness in markets.

Keywords: disclosure, cursedness, betting markets, ownership sales, regulatory interventions

JEL Classification: D03, D82, D83, G02, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Darren and Kapparov, Madi and Toynbee, Sara and Wertz, John, When Disclosure Isn’t Enough: Evidence on Cursedness in Betting Markets (September 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4219155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
345,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies