Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home-Alone CEO: Corporate Risk-Taking Prohibition?

47 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Wei Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between home-alone CEOs (i.e. when the CEO is the only insider on the board of directors) and corporate risk-taking. Using Ln(volatility of monthly return) as the corporate risk-taking proxy and a sample of 14,274 observations throughout the period 1996-2018, this paper identifies that boards with home-alone CEOs are negatively related to corporate risk-taking behaviours. However, when home-alone CEOs hold stock ownership of the company, such relationship is less pronounced. Further analyses further reveal that the negative relationship between home-alone CEOs and corporate risk-taking is more significant after the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). The findings in this study are robust to alternative risk-taking proxies and free from endogeneity issues.

Keywords: Home-alone CEO, Board of directors, Corporate risk-taking, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Wei, Home-Alone CEO: Corporate Risk-Taking Prohibition?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4220931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4220931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies