Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Should Be ES plus G: Reassessing the Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility on Firm Performance after Negative Financial Events

47 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 19 Dec 2023

Nafis Rahman

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Noushi Rahman

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Donald S. Siegel

Arizona State University-School of Public Affairs

Date Written: November 29, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between corporate social responsibility (henceforth, CSR) and short- and long-term firm performance after corporate scandals. Drawing on strategic CSR, relational contract, and psychological contract theories, we hypothesize that corporate citizenship and corporate governance aspects of CSR have opposite effects on the market reaction to financial restatements. Our empirical analysis reveals that firms with a strong reputation for corporate citizenship experience a smaller negative market response to restatements. Conversely, a firm’s reputation for corporate governance exacerbates the negative surprise triggered by restatements. Our analysis also shows that firms experience a long-term decrease in financial performance following restatements. It appears that a strong reputation for citizenship ameliorates the damaging effects of a corporate scandal, while governance reputation ranges between unrelated to damaging in different models. A key takeaway from our study is that mixing ES and G ratings to operationalize CSR obfuscates the role of corporate citizenship, which could lead to misleading estimates of the corporate “returns” to CSR.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Citizenship, Corporate Governance, ESG Framework, Financial Restatement

JEL Classification: G10, M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Nafis and Rahman, Noushi and Siegel, Donald S., ESG Should Be ES plus G: Reassessing the Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility on Firm Performance after Negative Financial Events (November 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4220380 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4220380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2018
A Amel-Zadeh , R Lustermans , M Pieterse-Bloem
Do sustainability ratings matter? Evidence from private wealth investment flows Posted: 2022
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Academy of Management Journal , volume 49 , issue 6 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
168,604
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies