Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Review of Accounting Studies at Age 25: A Retrospective Using Bibliometric Analysis

Baker, H.K., Kumar, Satish., Pandey, Nitesh and Srivastava, Anup (2022) “The Review of Accounting Studies at age 25: A retrospective using bibliometric analysis”, Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming)

51 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022

H. Kent Baker

American University - Kogod School of Business

Satish Kumar

Indian Institute of Management Nagpur

Nitesh Pandey

Amrita School of Business; Malaviya National Institute of Technology

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: September 16, 2022

Abstract

The Review of Accounting Studies (RAST) recently completed 25 years of publication. We provide a descriptive analysis of RAST’s characteristics that should interest the stakeholders who have been part of the journal’s evolution. We benchmark RAST’s characteristics against the other top accounting journals: Journal of Accounting and Economics, Journal of Accounting Research, The Accounting Review, and Contemporary Accounting Research. We provide information on types of research published over time, the journals that cite RAST, and RAST’s most highly cited papers for different periods. Results show that RAST has emerged as a leader among accounting journals despite being the youngest journal among its peer group.

Keywords: Bibliometric analysis, Accounting journals, Review of Accounting Studies, Performance analysis, Science mapping, Bibliographic coupling, Citations analysis.

JEL Classification: G0, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baker, H. Kent and Kumar, Satish and Pandey, Nitesh and Srivastava, Anup, The Review of Accounting Studies at Age 25: A Retrospective Using Bibliometric Analysis (September 16, 2022). Baker, H.K., Kumar, Satish., Pandey, Nitesh and Srivastava, Anup (2022) “The Review of Accounting Studies at age 25: A retrospective using bibliometric analysis”, Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4220449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4220449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,211
RANK
124,786
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies