Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Strategies for Sustainability of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Nigeria - The Education, Accounting, and Consulting Outlook

International Journal of Economics and Financial Management (IJEFM) E-ISSN 2545-5966 P-ISSN 2695-1932 Vol 7. No. 3 2022 www.iiardjournals.org DOI: 10.56201/ijefm.v7.no3.2022.pg31.47

Posted: 11 Nov 2022

Edward Agbai

Smart Alliance Consulting Services Ltd; Walden University; Emmanuel University

Okey Udo

Independent

Date Written: September 16, 2022

Abstract

Although small and medium enterprises (SMEs) contribute significantly to Nigeria’s socioeconomic and political development, most of the country’s SMEs no longer operate by their fifth anniversary. Many owners lack knowledge of the financial strategies required for the longterm performance and growth of their enterprise. The aim of this qualitative multiple case study was to gain an in-depth understanding of financial strategies that SMEs owner-managers can adopt to enhance the sustainability of their business operations in Nigeria. This study was grounded in entrepreneurship theory and Porter’s model of competitive strategy. Qualitative data from multiple sources, including semi structured interviews, scholarly works, and observational field notes, were collected. The participants were six SME owner-managers who employ fewer than 200 employees within the education and accounting/consulting service sectors. Thematic analysis of data produced five themes that explained the financial strategy practices of SME owner-managers: maintaining strategic financial practices, acquisition of basic financial cum business knowledge, establish sound financial reporting system, articulating challenges of SMEs, and embracing entrepreneurial resilience. The findings revealed the need for SME owner-managers to embrace dynamism in their financial strategy practices. By doing so, SME owner-managers may be able to sustain their businesses, which may promote positive social change through job creation, wealth distribution, technological innovation, grassroots development, and enhancement of gross domestic product.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship; Education; Financial Strategy; Innovation; Sustainability; Wealth Distribution

Suggested Citation:

Agbai, Edward and Udo, Okey, Financial Strategies for Sustainability of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Nigeria - The Education, Accounting, and Consulting Outlook (September 16, 2022). International Journal of Economics and Financial Management (IJEFM) E-ISSN 2545-5966 P-ISSN 2695-1932 Vol 7. No. 3 2022 www.iiardjournals.org DOI: 10.56201/ijefm.v7.no3.2022.pg31.47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4220436
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies