Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which CSR Dimension Matters in Stock Price Crash Risk? Evidence from China

35 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022

Chunying Wu

Tianjin University

Xiong Xiong

College of Management and Economics and China Center for Social Computing and Analytics

Ya Gao

Dalian University of Technology

Abstract

This paper examines the inﬂuence of CSR performance and its three dimensions on price crash risks. Using a comprehensive sample of A-share stocks from 2011 to 2018, we find that CSR performance significantly mitigates future price crash risks, and this influence is mainly from the governance and environmental dimensions. Besides, we find that ﬁrm undervaluation has a signiﬁcant moderating effect on the relationship between CSR performance and stock crash risk, and the impact of CSR performance on the mitigation of crash risk is more pronounced during financial crisis periods. Finally, we demonstrate that when a firm is not subject to NEIP or if it is in a region with better air quality, environmental responsibility more significantly reduces future stock price crashes, and the impacts of governance dimensions are more prominent when a ﬁrm has higher agency problems, less transparency, and poorer management reputations.

Keywords: CSR, Environmental responsibility, Social responsibility, Governance responsibility, Crash risk

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Chunying and Xiong, Xiong and Gao, Ya, Which CSR Dimension Matters in Stock Price Crash Risk? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4221749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4221749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
538
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies