Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Risk-Based Internal Audit Planning Implementation and Its Impact on Audit Quality: Case Study at the Inspectorate of Surakarta, Indonesia

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.3 (2022)

17 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Erika Pristiwati Anugraheni

Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta

Erma Setiawati

Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta

Rina Trisnawati

Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta

Date Written: September 18, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to determine the implementation of risk-based audit planning in the Inspectorate of Surakarta and its impact on audit quality. In addition, this study also identifies factors that hinder the implementation of the risk-based audit plan. The approach used in this research is a qualitative approach with a case study method. This study concludes, firstly, that the risk-based audit planning at the Inspectorate of Surakarta consists of the strategic planning stage, annual audit planning, and individual audit planning assignments. Second, the Inspectorate of Surakarta has encouraged the identification and risk assessment process for local government agencies through the preparation of a risk register, which has been well documented. But the Local Government Agency is taking a long time to send the Inspectorate its risk register. Furthermore, the impact of risk-based audit planning at the Inspectorate of Surakarta on audit quality can be seen from the value of the results of the external peer review in 2022, with the category "Good." In addition, risk-based audit assignments are able to narrow the scope of audits on high-risk programs and activities and save audit time. Factors that hinder the Surakarta City Inspectorate in implementing risk-based audit planning in terms of annual planning include the inadequate quality of risk management in OPD, delays in compiling risk registers in the Local Government Agency, and changes in nomenclature.


Keywords: Risk-Based Audit, Planning, Risk, Audit Quality, Inspectorate of Surakarta

Suggested Citation:

Anugraheni, Erika Pristiwati and Setiawati, Erma and Trisnawati, Rina, Analysis of Risk-Based Internal Audit Planning Implementation and Its Impact on Audit Quality: Case Study at the Inspectorate of Surakarta, Indonesia (September 18, 2022). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.3 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4222206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
163,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies