Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Independence and Earnings Management

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Zhongwei Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Daphne Lui

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether analyst independence contributes to analysts’ monitoring role in deterring accruals earnings management. We first report a negative association between earnings management and the ratio of independent analysts to brokerage analysts covering a firm. Next, through the lens of the promotion of independent sell-side research institutions by the 2003 Global Research Analyst Settlement, we document a significant decrease in earnings management on firms affected by the Global Settlement’s mandate for time-limited support to back independent research institutions. Additionally, we find that, as the aforementioned support ended, the extent of monitoring effectiveness reverted to a level indistinguishable from that before the Global Settlement. Finally, using closures and mergers of independent research institutions as a quasi-natural experiment, we provide corroborating evidence consistent with analyst independence leading to more effective monitoring.

Keywords: analyst independence, monitoring, earnings management, regulatory reforms

JEL Classification: G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Zhongwei and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Lui, Daphne, Analyst Independence and Earnings Management (August 24, 2022). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4222708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
B Allen
Independent research grows under the global settlement
IR Magazine, October 1 Posted: 2009
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022
D R Ayres , J L Campbell , J A Chyz , J E Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Nusrat Jahan , Padmakumar Sivadasan
<span>Do Analysts’ Gross Margin Forecasts Influence Manager’s Decisions to Recognize Inventory Losses?</span>
50 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
RANK
609,870
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies