Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts Forecasts: The Secret Sauce Stirring Up CEOs’ Abnormal Pay

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

39 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 17 Oct 2025

Xia Li

Aston University - Aston Business School

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Date Written: September 18, 2022

Abstract

Jensen and Meckling (1976) claim that by facilitating firms’ activities monitoring, security analysis by financial analysts can reduce agency costs between management and external capital providers, and thereby increase shareholder value. Additionally, boards are required to design executive pay structures to minimise agency problems and related costs. Among the limited studies that explore the relationship between analysts’ forecasts and CEOs’ compensation, one strand reports a positive relation supporting the agency theory, while the other reports a negative relation contradicting the agency theory. This disagreement may stem from the unobserved determinants of CEOs’ compensation structures. Thus, we use CEOs’ abnormal compensation (ACOMP, the proportion of pay that economic determinants cannot accurately determine) to reinvestigate this relation and find conclusive evidence of its negative association with analysts’ forecast metrics. Although consistent with agency theory, this negative relationship is mainly seen in firms subject to stronger external monitoring, as indicated by higher corporate governance scores, takeover vulnerability, institutional ownership, and firm-level political risk. Our findings suggest that analysts serve as a proxy for unobserved factors influencing ACOMP and play a key role in aligning CEO interests with those of shareholders.

Keywords: Executive compensation, Abnormal compensation, Earnings forecasts, Corporate governance, Information asymmetry, Agency theory, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: M12, M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xia and Gupta, Jairaj and De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas, Analysts Forecasts: The Secret Sauce Stirring Up CEOs’ Abnormal Pay (September 18, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4222326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4222326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
D Adut , A Duru , W L Galpin
The role of corporate governance in meeting or beating analysts' forecast
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , p. 188 - 198 Posted: 2011
N Aktas , E Croci , S A Simsir
Corporate governance and takeover outcomes
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 24 , p. 242 - 252 Posted: 2016
W Alissa
Boards' response to shareholders' dissatisfaction: The case of shareholders' say on pay in the UK
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , p. 727 - 752 Posted: 2015
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
448,944
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies