Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Treatment and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China

35 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 27 Apr 2023

Maochuan Wang

Chongqing University - School of Economics and Business Admininstration

Xu Xixiong

Chongqing University

Siqi Wang

Chongqing University

Date Written: August 10, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines the impact of employee treatment on stock price crash risk in an emerging market. The study further sheds light on the economic channels and boundary conditions between employee treatment and crash risk.
Design/methodology/approach: This study employs a large-scale archival dataset of Chinese A-share listed firms covering 2010 to 2021. To identify the causal effect of employee treatment on crash risk, the study leverages multi-way fixed effects, Oster’s test, change regression, and instrumental variable methods to alleviate endogeneity concerns.
Findings: The results reveal that employee-friendly treatment leads to a lower crash risk. Moreover, improving internal control quality and enhancing firm reputation appear to be the two plausible economic channels through which employee treatment mitigates crash risk. Cross-sectionally, the documented impact is more evident for human-capital-intensive firms, for firms with weaker external monitoring, and for firms facing higher industry competition.
Originality/value: This study is among the first to show that employee treatment has a favorable consequence for shareholder benefit through curbing crash risk. The study thus adds to the ongoing debate regarding the relationship between employee treatment and shareholder wealth. The study also extends the nascent literature on the role of rank-and-file employees in shaping crash risk. Additionally, the study advances the understanding of capital market practitioners regarding labor treatment policies.

Keywords: Employee treatment, Stock price crash risk, Emerging market, Human capital, China

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, J20

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Maochuan and Xixiong, Xu and Wang, Siqi, Employee Treatment and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China (August 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4223015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,068
RANK
322,813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies