Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Managerial Optimism On Corporate Investment of Financially Constrained Firms – Evidence From Emerging Markets

Journal of Positive School Psychology, Vol. 6, No. 8, 5485-5497, 2022

13 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2022

Sujood Gharaibeh

Yarmouk University

Mona Almwalla

Yarmouk University

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

The objective of this study is to identify the impact of managerial optimism on the corporate investment decisions of financially constrained firms in Jordan during the 2013–2019 period. The sample consists of 56 companies from the industrial and services sectors. The data was sourced from the annual reports of the sampled firms listed on the Amman Stock Exchange (ASE). The research methodology is based on the KZ index to measure the financial constraints of the sample companies under investigation and the directors' dealings to measure the managerial optimism. The study sample was analyzed using multiple fixed effects panel regression with capital expenditures as a measurement of investment level and cash flow, Tobin's Q, leverage, managerial optimism, and the interaction between optimism and cash flow as independent variables. The findings clearly show that managerial optimism has an impact on the investment levels of financially constrained companies in Jordan. As such, optimism might encourage the administration to invest more.

Keywords: Managerial Optimism, Corporate Investment, Financial Constraints, Emerging Markets.

Suggested Citation:

Gharaibeh, Sujood and Almwalla, Mona, The Effect of Managerial Optimism On Corporate Investment of Financially Constrained Firms – Evidence From Emerging Markets (August 24, 2022). Journal of Positive School Psychology, Vol. 6, No. 8, 5485-5497, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
672,649
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies