Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Effects and Complementarities-in-Performance: The Long-Run Impacts of CSR on an Acquirer's Performance in Cross-Border Mergers

86 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2022

Md Shahiduzzaman

University of Queensland Brisbane; University of New England

Abstract

Do an acquirer’s CSR scores impact its post-merger performance in the short and long run? How do relationships among individual CSR pillars affect merger performance? Analysing a global sample of cross-border merger data from 2002 to 2018, we find positive and significant effects of overall CSR, the environmental pillar, and the social pillar on changes in ROA and Tobin’s Q of acquirers during the three years following acquisitions. Furthermore, the governance pillar only impacts short-run ROA change. We found complementarities among the three pillars of CSR in relation to attaining performance synergy. The effects of CSR controversies are long-lasting and appear to affect both the operating performance and market value of acquiring firms negatively. Finally, the effects of CSR on post-merger performance are more profound in the long run. CSR has much larger economic impacts on post-merger market value than on the operating performance of acquirers.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, Environmental Pillar, Social Pillar, Governance Pillar, Cross-border mergers and acquisitions, Complementarities in Performance

Suggested Citation:

Shahiduzzaman, Md, Individual Effects and Complementarities-in-Performance: The Long-Run Impacts of CSR on an Acquirer's Performance in Cross-Border Mergers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies