Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinant Governance Mechanisms Affecting the Quality of Auditing: the External Auditors’ Perceptions

28 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022

Nashat Almasria

A'SHARQIYAH UNIVERSITY

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

Audit quality and corporate governance mechanisms are significant aspects of today’s business practices. Recently, these issues have evoked interest and received attention of regulators, researchers and practitioners and have become the center of the argument, due to their role in boosting investor’s confidence and improving the reliability of financial reports. This research aims to investigate the factors that affecting audit quality includes the board of director’s characteristics and performance, the audit committee responsibilities, internal audit factors and performance and the quality of the external audit.

Methodology: This study expanded the previous research that have used different proxies to measure audit quality, this study employed questionnaire to measure audit quality and internal governance mechanisms by adopting some practical indicators from previous literature which could reflect and effect audit quality.

Findings: According to the regression results, it has been found that there is a strong positive relationship which is statistically significant between work performance of internal auditors and the audit quality (β=0.280, p=.000), the strongest relationship was between audit quality and work performance and it contributes to the model and this is consistent with prior studies. Further, the board of director’s responsibilities has been determined to have a significant impact on audit quality where the coefficient of determination is .085 at significant level.

Originality: The external auditor highlighted the significant related role which played by the audit committee in by in discussing the ways and methods the external auditors can communicate with internal governance (e.g. internal audit)

Practical implications: The findings of this study have implications for the practitioner and regulators who are assessing the role of internal governance mechanisms in improving the external audit process. The results also have significant implications at international level because the Jordanian companies follow and apply the international standards and principles that related to audit and governance system

Keywords: Audit quality and corporate governance mechanisms

JEL Classification: M12

Suggested Citation:

Almasria, Nashat, Determinant Governance Mechanisms Affecting the Quality of Auditing: the External Auditors’ Perceptions (September 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4223799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
834
RANK
221,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies