Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director and Officer Liability and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Sep 2022

Sarfraz Khan

University of Louisiana at Lafayette

Sung-Jin Park

Korea Institute of Public Finance; Indiana University South Bend

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

John K. Wald

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

We use the unique nature of the director and officer liability protection law applicable to Nevada-incorporated firms to study how liability protection is related to corporate tax avoidance. We find that firms incorporated in Nevada avoid 32 percent more federal corporate tax as a fraction of total assets than firms incorporated in Delaware, and 40 percent more than firms incorporated in other states. Nevada-incorporated firms have a 15 percent lower cash effective tax rate and an 8 percent lower GAAP ETR. The results are robust to various specifications including instrumental variable and matching approaches. Greater tax avoidance is also associated with lower payouts to shareholders for Nevada-incorporated firms. The findings are consistent with theories about the complementarity of managerial diversion and tax avoidance for firms with poor monitoring, and they demonstrate how increases in liability protection lead to the unintended consequence of greater firm tax avoidance.

Keywords: corporate governance; corporate law; director and officer liability; tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G34, G38, H25, H26, K22

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Sarfraz and Park, Sung-Jin and Veliotis, Stanley and Wald, John K., Director and Officer Liability and Corporate Tax Avoidance (August 1, 2022). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223333
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies