Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ role in corporate governance

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-47

Preprint of chapter in Hanne Birkmose, Mette Neville and Karsten Engsig Sørensen (eds) Instruments of EU Corporate Governance: Effecting Changes in the Management of Companies in a Changing World (Kluwer Law International, forthcoming 2023)

Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper No. 22-05

29 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 8 Dec 2022

Jukka Mähönen

University of Oslo - Faculty of Law; University of Helsinki - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

Auditors have an important role in corporate governance, but they are not part of a firm’s management, which consists of the board and the chief executive officer or the general manager. They are not, legally speaking, ‘agents’ for the members of the firm either, although they are often elected by members. On the other hand, auditors are not agents for the management either, despite their fees being based on a contract between themselves and the management – acting on behalf of the firm – whose work they scrutinize. In the case of firms with societal importance in particular, they are seen as guardians of public interests, albeit not directly, by communities of people and institutions relying on auditors’ work (including the state in its many roles). They are also seen as guardians of public interests in a more abstract way, given that auditing contributes to the reliability and orderly functioning of markets and society generally by enhancing the integrity and efficiency of corporate information. In this way, auditors fulfil a particularly important societal role. This role can be also seen as one that ensures accountability to a firm’s non-member constituencies.

In these roles, they have an important role in following up on the compliance of rules that ensure good corporate governance. Traditionally, research into auditing in corporate governance has focused on how corporate governance affects auditing, rather than how auditing affects corporate governance. However, the abovementioned regulatory framework shows that the role of external auditors reflects the increasing focus on corporate governance and internal control on the part of companies and regulators, and also the heterogeneousness of the auditor role.

In this chapter, I discuss in more detail the different roles of auditors in governance of different kinds of firms, both large and small, multinational and local. What is common to all firms is the auditors’ task of maintaining both the cooperation of the management and their oversight, or in other words, the informal and formal role of auditors in corporate governance structures. I limit the discussion here to external auditors, although internal audits and compliance are no less important. Indeed, successful management requires both.

I pay special attention to auditors as overseers of firm management, how they fulfil this role in different kinds of firms, the kind of regulatory framework within which this role is fulfilled and what effect their involvement is likely to have on corporate governance. The main question to be answered is whether the auditors are enhancing good corporate governance and whether this could be done (even) better. The latter part of the question is approached through discussion of the scope of the audit, for example, will it be focused on financial reports only or will the auditors also audit reports on management, governance, environmental and social impact of undertakings.

The focus in in this chapter is on European Union legislation on audit and auditors, including the European Commission proposal for a directive on sustainability reporting, expanding the duties of auditors to encompass audits of sustainability reports.


Keywords: Audit, Auditors, Auditing, Corporate Law, Company Law, Corporate Governance, European Union, EU Law

Suggested Citation:

Mähönen, Jukka T, Auditors’ role in corporate governance (September 19, 2022). University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-47, Preprint of chapter in Hanne Birkmose, Mette Neville and Karsten Engsig Sørensen (eds) Instruments of EU Corporate Governance: Effecting Changes in the Management of Companies in a Changing World (Kluwer Law International, forthcoming 2023), Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper No. 22-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
998
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,823
RANK
52,502
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies