Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship Theory of Corporate Governance and Succession Planning in Family Businesses of UAE: Views of the Owners

Qualitative Research in Financial Markets, Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Mohamed Jasir

Independent

Naimat Ullah Khan

Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff Metropolitan University UK

Yasser Barghathi

Zayed University - College of Business

Date Written: September 14, 2022

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to explore corporate governance (CG) and succession planning in family-owned businesses in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).

Design/methodology/approach – Semi-structured interviews are conducted with 16 owners and heirs of UAE family businesses. The interviews – face-to-face and asynchronous electronic – are conducted instead of a questionnaire to get an in-depth analysis of the topic in the context of both medium- and large-sized family businesses.

Findings – The responses are mixed with regard to governance challenges (duality, gender, internal control, transparency, etc.). The majority of the interviewees indicate that succession planning remains one of the biggest challenges for family businesses in the UAE. Fifteen of the sixteen interviewees document that a sound succession strategy must be in place to ensure the continuity of the business and prevent future disputes among potential successors. Similarly, the respondents also emphasise the importance of transparency and accountability for the sustainability of family businesses. The sustainability of family businesses relies on many aspects, such as national regulations, corporate systems and the succession process. Finally, most of the respondents from medium-sized companies opined that incorporating CG is a time-consuming and expensive process.

Practical implications – The interviewees supported stewardship theory in case family members are occupying positions on the board as they have more long-term commitment and a greater sense of belonging to the business (socio-emotional wealth) compared to non-family members. The interviewees acknowledge that the lack of professionalism and conflicts of interest among family members can be offset by recruiting non-family members.

Originality/value – Family businesses are particularly significant in the Arab world as they account for over 60% of gross domestic product (GDP) and use above 80% of the workforce which make them interesting research subject. In addition, this paper explores the CG challenges faced by both large- and medium-sized family businesses in the UAE within the theoretical framework of stewardship theory.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Family governance, Challenges, Family business, Large- and medium-sized business, United Arab Emirates, Semi-structured interview, Stewardship Theory

JEL Classification: M14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Jasir, Mohamed and Khan, Naimat Ullah and Barghathi, Yasser, Stewardship Theory of Corporate Governance and Succession Planning in Family Businesses of UAE: Views of the Owners (September 14, 2022). Qualitative Research in Financial Markets, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies