Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretionary Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Stock Returns: The Role of Economic Booms and Busts

Hegde, S. P., & Kozlowski, S. E. (2021). Discretionary loan loss provisioning and bank stock returns: The Role of economic booms and busts. Journal of Banking & Finance, 130, 106186. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2021.106186

Posted: 16 Nov 2022

Shantaram P. Hegde

University of Connecticut- Finance Department

Steven Kozlowski

Fairfield University

Date Written: March 30, 2021

Abstract

We provide evidence that discretionary loan loss provisions (DLLP) convey value-relevant information to the market that is highly dependent upon the state of the economy. DLLP is associated with negative abnormal returns during bad economic states characterized by growing default concerns, but it is associated with significantly higher abnormal stock returns in good economic states, as banks relax underwriting standards and look to accelerate loan growth. Exploring the underlying link, we find that banks recording higher provisions during good times realize significantly higher earnings and loan growth in the subsequent year, whereas such banks experience further increases in non-performing loans following periods of distress. These findings are not driven by the 2008 financial crisis when investors responded even more negatively to DLLP. With new accounting standards requiring an even greater degree of subjective judgment, regulators should ensure the informativeness of bank loss reserves is preserved.

Keywords: Loan loss provision, Bank holding company, Business cycle, Lending standards, Valuation, Bank lending

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M40

Suggested Citation:

Hegde, Shantaram P. and Kozlowski, Steven, Discretionary Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Stock Returns: The Role of Economic Booms and Busts (March 30, 2021). Hegde, S. P., & Kozlowski, S. E. (2021). Discretionary loan loss provisioning and bank stock returns: The Role of economic booms and busts. Journal of Banking & Finance, 130, 106186. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2021.106186, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
RANK
662,989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies