Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Debt-Equity Bias within a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) : Possibilities, Impact on Effective Tax Rates and Revenue Neutrality

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 2 ; p. 165-191

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Jost H. Heckemeyer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Katharina Nicolay

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rainer Bräutigam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kathrin Stutzenberger

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 23, 2018

Abstract

Corporate tax systems encourage the use of debt rather than equity finance. This corporate debt bias is a matter of concern in light of its implications for macrofinancial stability. In October 2016, the European Commission addressed the issue in its relaunched proposal of a Common (Consolidated) Corporate Tax Base (CC(C)TB). Various reform options to alleviate the debt bias and increase financing neutrality of tax systems exist. Whether such reforms are indeed effective from the point of view of EU Member States depends on how they interact with the specific local tax codes. Based on the well-established indicators of the effective tax burden of companies according to the Devereux/Griffith methodology, this paper analyses the impact of four fundamental tax reform options on financing neutrality in each EU Member State. The results show that all fundamental tax reform options largely establish financing neutrality in the EU Member States but considerably differ in their consequences for corporate investment.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax reform, corporate income tax, CCCTB, tax rate

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Spengel, Christoph and Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Nicolay, Katharina and Bräutigam, Rainer and Stutzenberger, Kathrin, Addressing the Debt-Equity Bias within a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) : Possibilities, Impact on Effective Tax Rates and Revenue Neutrality (March 23, 2018). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 2 ; p. 165-191, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224402
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies