Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Digital Transformation Improve Corporate ESG Responsibility Performance? ——Evidence from China

10 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2022

Haijun Wang

Beijing Wuzi University

Songzheng Wang

Beijing Wuzi University

Junfeng Lu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Haohan Luo

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

Digital transformation improves the efficiency and perception of enterprises. Meanwhile, it builds conditions for enterprises to fulfill their ESG responsibilities. The results show that digital transformation can significantly improve corporation ESG performance. The innovation abilities, information disclosure quality and financial performance of the corporation play moderating effects on the process of how digital transformation affects corporate ESG responsibility performance. The findings of this paper enrich and expand the research on the effects of corporate digital transformation, additionally provide a brand new perspective to accelerate worldwide corporate to fulfill ESG responsibilities and achieve global carbon emission reduction targets.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, ESG, Innovation capability, Carbon emission, Information disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Haijun and Wang, Songzheng and Lu, Junfeng and Luo, Haohan, Does Digital Transformation Improve Corporate ESG Responsibility Performance? ——Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4225044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4225044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
RANK
177,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies