Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The European Company (Societas Europaea - Se) Caught in between Cross-Border Mobility and Lock-In Effect - an Empirical Analysis on the Influence of Exit Taxation Upon Cross-Border Mergers and Seat Location Decisions

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 1 ; p. 34-75

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Dirk Schmidtmann

Independent

Date Written: January 25, 2012

Abstract

Ever since the European Company (Societas Europaea - SE) was introduced in 2004 to complete the single European market and to facilitate freedom of establishment of companies, the number of established SEs has increased substantially. The SE Statute provides for cross-border mobility enabling the SE to engage in regulatory, legal and international tax arbitrage to attain competitive advantages. The uneven regional distribution of SEs as well as the low existing numbers of transferred seats and cross-border mergers indicate that the arbitrage opportunities the SE offers are not being made use of to the expected extent. This paper examines empirically the correlation between exit taxation provisions of Member States of the European Economic Area and the current distribution of SEs and their formation by cross-border merger as well as their decision to transfer the registered office by employing two simple econometric models: a chi-square independency test and a regression analysis. The results emerging from this study suggest that exit taxation provisions affect the numbers of cross-border mergers and transfers of the registered office, the direction of the merger and the direction of the transfer of the registered office. The potential realization and taxation of accrued gains causes lock-in effects.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: European Company, exit tax, cross-border merger

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schmidtmann, Dirk, The European Company (Societas Europaea - Se) Caught in between Cross-Border Mobility and Lock-In Effect - an Empirical Analysis on the Influence of Exit Taxation Upon Cross-Border Mergers and Seat Location Decisions (January 25, 2012). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 1 ; p. 34-75, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226626
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies