Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment–Cash Flow Sensitivity and Investor Protection

Kabbach-de-Castro, L. R., Martins, H. C., Schiehll, E., & Terra, P. R. S. (2022). Investment–cash flow sensitivity and investor protection. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 00, 1– 37. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12645

46 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2022

Luiz Ricardo Kabbach-Castro

University of Navarra

Henrique Martins

FGV-EAESP

Eduardo Schiehll

HEC Montréal; Aalto University School of Business

Paulo R. S. Terra

FGV-EAESP

Date Written: September 21, 2022

Abstract

We examine the role of country-level legal investor protection (i.e., shareholder and creditor protection) on firm investment–cash flow sensitivity. Using underexplored research data on investor protection across 21 countries and working with a conservative empirical design, we extend prior literature on the relation between investor protection and investment–cash flow sensitivity and provide new evidence on how these country-level attributes interact to explain a firm’s investment–cash flow sensitivity. We find that either the strong legal protection of minority shareholders or the strong legal protection of creditors reduces the sensitivity of investment to internal cash flow. However, in countries with strong levels of both minority shareholder and creditor protection, investment–cash flow sensitivity increases. Our results remain robust after controlling for several alternative explanations. The results support the argument that overregulation arises when policymakers increase investor protection at levels that lead firms to avoid external sources of finance, hampering firm investment. Our findings suggest that countries face a regulatory trade-off such that increasing investor protection (either shareholder or creditors protection) enhances financial markets efficiency, but excessive regulation can indeed lead to financial markets inefficiencies.

Keywords: Investment–cash flow sensitivity, investor protection, corporate investment, overregulation, creditor protection, minority shareholder protection, international, cash flow, institutions, law and finance

Suggested Citation:

Kabbach-Castro, Luiz Ricardo and Martins, Henrique and Schiehll, Eduardo and Terra, Paulo Renato Soares, Investment–Cash Flow Sensitivity and Investor Protection (September 21, 2022). Kabbach-de-Castro, L. R., Martins, H. C., Schiehll, E., & Terra, P. R. S. (2022). Investment–cash flow sensitivity and investor protection. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 00, 1– 37. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12645, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
451
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies