Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deconstructing the PCAOB: Using Organizational Economics to Assess the State of a Regulator

58 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022

Francine McKenna

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Tzachi Zach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: September 22, 2022

Abstract

Using the principles of organizational economics, we assess the quality of the organizational architecture of the Public Companies Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). We use the Four Pillar Framework developed in Brickley, Smith, and Zimmerman (2000) to understand why—according to the SEC’s Chairman Gensler and other stakeholders—the PCAOB may not have entirely realized its mission of investor protection. Our analysis is enabled by the transcripts of the 2019 criminal trial U.S. v. Middendorf and Wada (i.e., PCAOB-KPMG “steal the inspection data” scandal), which for the first time exposed the inner workings of the PCAOB. Our analysis of the transcripts is augmented by other publicly available documents. Our primary conclusion is that the functioning of the PCAOB has been significantly hampered by misalignment of its tasks (in particular in relation to the SEC), sub-optimally designed performance measurement and employee compensation, and weaknesses in the PCAOB’s organizational culture. These misalignments created an environment susceptible to PCAOB employees’ criminal misconduct which enabled the PCAOB-KPMG “steal the inspection data” scandal and other Board governance and leadership challenges.

Keywords: PCAOB, organizational architecture, incentive alignment

JEL Classification: G28, G38, K23, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

McKenna, Francine and Pevzner, Mikhail and Sheneman, Amy and Zach, Tzachi, Deconstructing the PCAOB: Using Organizational Economics to Assess the State of a Regulator (September 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,535
RANK
150,243
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies