Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Peer Influence on Dividend Payout Decisions

46 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 19 May 2025

Joshua Cave

University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Sandra Lancheros Torres

Leeds University Business School (LUBS) - Division of Economics; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 16, 2022

Abstract

Using a large sample of US listed firms, we examine how firms’ dividend payout decisions are influenced by the decisions of their local peers. We show that the decision to increase, initiate and decrease dividends are all influenced by the dividend decisions of local peers. We find local peer effects to be more pronounced for firms exposed to greater local retail and local institutional investor demand and in geographies where dividend payouts are highly concentrated between locally competing firms. Overall, our findings suggest that local peer effects arise due to the presence of local dividend demand and supply-side pressures.

Keywords: Dividend Payouts, Local Peer Influence, Dividend Clienteles, Geography

Suggested Citation:

Cave, Joshua and Lancheros Torres, Sandra, Local Peer Influence on Dividend Payout Decisions (September 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
473
RANK
318,538
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies