Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and SEO Announcement Effects Around the World

34 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Torbjörn Müller

RWTH Aachen University - Department of Finance

Date Written: September 01, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes the role of Corporate Social Responsibility during seasoned equity offerings. On an international dataset, I identify a positive relationship between CSR performance and SEO announcement returns that is weakened, if the level of investor protection is high. At the same time, the relationship is weakened, if the level of stakeholder orientation is high. The results suggest that high CSR firms may benefit from more trust from shareholders to the effect that financing decisions are looked on more favorably, especially when investors are in need and open for an additional soft signal of quality.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Finance, Seasoned Equity Offerings

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G32, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Torbjörn, Corporate Social Responsibility and SEO Announcement Effects Around the World (September 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
687,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies