Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Pandemic, Corporate Investment and the Real Option Value

50 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2022

Chao Yan

Independent

Ziyi Zhang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Yi Feng

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: September 22, 2022

Abstract

The outbreak of COVID-19 has a huge negative impact on the firms’ business activities. This paper investigates the effects of COVID-19 pandemic on corporate investment and firm value from the real option perspective. Based on the real-option based model (ROM) proposed by Zhang (2000), we find that COVID-19 crisis accelerates low-profitability firms to reduce investment scale and exercise put options timely, thereby the value of put options is increased. This finding mainly exists in areas where the COVID-19 pandemic is worse and firms that have not received government subsidies related to COVID-19. We also find that the value of put options is more pronounced for non-state-owned enterprises and firms with higher internal control quality. However, we do not find the change of growth option value of high-profitability firms during the COVID-19, which indicates that it is difficult for high-profitability firms to grasp the investment expansion opportunities under the COVID-19 pandemic. Our study sheds light on the applicability of ROM and the importance of real option in firm valuation under the major public emergencies.

Keywords: COVID-19; Corporate Investment; Real Option Value; Put Options

JEL Classification: G12, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yan, Chao and Zhang, Ziyi and Feng, Yi, COVID-19 Pandemic, Corporate Investment and the Real Option Value (September 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
RANK
527,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies