Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers and Acquisitions Vis-a-Vis Corporate Governance: Analysis From India’s Perspective

9 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Simran Bais

Independent; National Law University, Nagpur

Date Written: September 23, 2022

Abstract

The process of Mergers and Acquisition (hereinafter referred to as ‘M&A’) is essentially based on the concept of synergism which is typically defined as the net potential gains of the merged entity to be greater than the gains derived from the sum of the gains from the individual firms. The role of corporate governance is pivotal in M&A process as the firms with better corporate governance (i.e., possessing transparency and accountability in their each and every process) have better financial performance. The present study is an attempt to understand the impact of board size on corporate governance and the effect of hostile takeovers on corporate governance particularly in Indian landscape.

Keywords: Mergers, Acquisitions, hostile takeover, corporate governance, Board size, social harms

Suggested Citation:

Bais, Simran and Bais, Simran, Mergers and Acquisitions Vis-a-Vis Corporate Governance: Analysis From India’s Perspective (September 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4228110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4228110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,361
RANK
172,502
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies