Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Corporate Payout in Canada

49 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Laurence David Booth

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Bin Chang

University of Ontario Institute of Technology (UOIT)

Jun Zhou

Dalhousie University

Abstract

We document changes in aggregate dividend payments by Canadian firms over the period 1989-2021, which covers both the “disappearing” (1989-2002) and the reappearing periods (2003-2021) previously noted for U.S firms. In Canada, the changes are mainly driven by the changes in the number of listed firms, particularly firms in the energy and mining sectors, the bursting of the Internet Bubble, the effects of the global financial crisis and unique policy changes in Canada concerning the taxation of income trusts. Unlike the experience in the US, where the number of dividend-paying firms declined to the extent that share repurchasing firms outnumbered dividend-paying firms, this has not been the case in Canada. Instead, both the number of dividend-paying firms is consistently higher throughout the sample period, while the number and percentage of repurchasing firms remains low. Of significance is that life-cycle theory as measured by the amount of cumulative retained earnings on a firm’s balance sheet plays an important role in explaining the dividend status of Canadian firms. Changes in the percentage of dividend paying firms can then be attributed to both changing firm characteristics and a changing propensity to pay a dividend.

Keywords: dividends, payout, Canada, corporate finance

Suggested Citation:

Booth, Laurence David and Chang, Bin and Zhou, Jun, The Evolution of Corporate Payout in Canada. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4229662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4229662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies