Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of Advertising on the Capital Market: Evidence from Financial Constraints

46 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2022

Fuxiu Jiang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Yanyan Shen

Beijing Technology and Business University

Xiaoxue Xia

Beijing Foreign Studies University

Abstract

Firms are embedded in the product market as well as the capital market. Their behavior in the product market will inevitably affect their performance in the capital market, and vice versa. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms, we empirically test the existence of spillover effects of advertising on financial constraints in the capital market. We find that product market advertising significantly alleviates firm’s financial constraint, especially when the information asymmetry between insiders and outsiders is more serious. We also find that advertising significantly reduces the firm’s financing costs. These findings provide valuable insights into how firms alleviate financial constraints.

Keywords: Advertising, Financial Constraints, Information Asymmetry, Product market, Capital market

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Fuxiu and Shen, Yanyan and Xia, Xiaoxue, The Spillover Effect of Advertising on the Capital Market: Evidence from Financial Constraints. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4229786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
464,511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies