Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Problem of Privileged Personal Knowledge: Toward a Theory of Decentralized Governance

Law & Economics Center at George Mason University Scalia Law School Research Paper Series No. 22-018

34 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 7 Oct 2022

Mark Packard

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: September 26, 2022

Abstract

I advance an epistemology-based argument for the decentralization of the (corporate) governance economic function. Impetus for this argument comes from a recent increase in decentralized approaches, including bossless (flat) organizations and decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). However, while there is now evidence that it can work, a theoretical framework for ex-plaining how they work or when and why they may be preferable to traditional governance practices has been lacking. The essential argument of the paper is that the traditional agency-theoretic framework of governance is incomplete, not taking full account of important epistemic issues at the core of the agency problem. Specifically, what in philosophy has been called the ‘problem of privileged personal knowledge’ implies that governance by supervision must run into insuperable knowledge asymmetry problems that can enable misconduct. Following the classical Hayekian argument, such asymmetries can be addressed through decentralized. I elaborate this basic argument into a theoretical explanation and defense of governance decentralization, which can take various forms. Decentralizing governance would, of course, not be without its flaws, costs, and other drawbacks, which are also discussed.

Keywords: decentralization, corporate governance, agency theory, epistemology, Austrian economics

JEL Classification: B53, M12, L22, L51

Suggested Citation:

Packard, Mark, Corporate Governance and the Problem of Privileged Personal Knowledge: Toward a Theory of Decentralized Governance (September 26, 2022). Law & Economics Center at George Mason University Scalia Law School Research Paper Series No. 22-018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,071
RANK
478,373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Economics Center at George Mason University Scalia Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies