Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and Accounting Conservatism

42 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 22 Jun 2023

Mansoor Afzali

Hanken School of Economics

Gonul Colak

University of Sussex ; Hanken School of Economics

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Minna Martikainen

University of Vaasa; Hanken School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the relationship between social capital and accounting conservatism. We measure social capital by the strength of civic norms and the density of social networks in a community and define accounting conservatism as earnings that reflect bad news more quickly than good news. We argue that firms headquartered in regions with stronger social capital have greater reputational concerns, face more social monitoring from stakeholders, and have better access to information and resources. These societal attributes discourage managers from delaying the recognition of bad news, resulting in higher accounting conservatism. Consistent with these arguments, we find that U.S. publicly listed firms located in counties with higher social capital display greater accounting conservatism. We also find that firms in high social capital regions prefer hiring managers with proven records of conservative accounting and that social capital reduces the asymmetric market reaction to bad versus good news disclosure. Our results are robust to using alternative measures of accounting conservatism and tests addressing endogeneity. Finally, using structural equation modeling (SEM), we show that accounting conservatism acts as a potential mechanism through which social capital reduces firms’ idiosyncratic risk.

Keywords: Social capital, accounting conservatism, firm risk

JEL Classification: M41, G32, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Afzali, Mansoor and Colak, Gonul and Hasan, Iftekhar and Martikainen, Minna, Social Capital and Accounting Conservatism (June 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
265,489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies