Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Risk Factor Disclosures through a Structural Topic Model

69 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 24 Jun 2025

Carl-Erik Heyvaert

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven, Department Accounting, Finance and Insurance

Kristof Stouthuysen

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven

Tim Verdonck

KU Leuven

Date Written: September 2, 2022

Abstract

This study examines how risk factor disclosures (RFDs) in U.S. 10-K filings have evolved over time, focusing on two dimensions: the content of disclosed risks and the quality of the disclosure. Using a structural topic model on over 58,000 filings from 2006 to 2023, we capture temporal and industry-specific dynamics, allowing us to link shifts in risk factor prevalence to disclosure attributes such as boilerplate, readability, and peer imitation. We uncover a striking paradox: firms increasingly diversify their risk content, yet this diversification coincides with greater standardization and diminishing disclosure quality, marked by higher imitation and stickiness. Additionally, we show that these shifts have meaningful implications for capital markets: greater topic diversification is associated with lower stock price synchronicity, consistent with enhanced firm-specific information. In contrast, greater standardization in disclosure language attenuates this effect, limiting the informativeness of risk communication. Our findings contribute to the literatures on narrative disclosure, textual analysis, and capital market consequences of financial reporting. This study not only enriches the academic literature on the risk disclosure landscape but also provides empirical evidence that could guide future regulatory adjustments by the SEC.

Keywords: Risk factor; Disclosure; Structural topic model; Industry; Prevalence; Informativeness

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Heyvaert, Carl-Erik and Stouthuysen, Kristof and Verdonck, Tim, The Evolution of Risk Factor Disclosures through a Structural Topic Model (September 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
251,747
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies