Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors' Corporate Site Visits and Audit Fees: Evidence from China

68 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 27 Oct 2022

Yige Jin

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU); City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Bozhi XU

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Yunyi Wang

Xi'an International Studies University

Gaoliang TIAN

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Date Written: September 26, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the impact of institutional investors’ site visits on audit fees. Taking benefit of mandatory disclosure of investors’ site visits information of firms listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in China, we find that firms with more institutional investors’ site visits enjoy lower audit fees. This association is more pronounced when star analysts and top executives participate in the site visits, visiting investors have school ties with auditors, and firms have less media coverage. We also exploit the 2SLS estimation approach to show that this effect appears causal. Further analyses show that institutional investors’ site visits could help the visited firms improve corporate governance and information transparency, which are the potential channels to reduce audit fees. Collectively, our findings highlight the role of institutional investors in understanding the auditing process.

Keywords: Institutional investors, Site visits, Corporate governance, Information transparency, Audit fees

JEL Classification: G23; G34; M42

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Yige and XU, Bozhi and Wang, Yunyi and TIAN, Gaoliang, Institutional Investors' Corporate Site Visits and Audit Fees: Evidence from China (September 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
379,149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies