Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an Agile Organization in the Financial Service Industry - RegSafe2©

28 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 26, 2022

Abstract

We investigate approaches for the transformation of traditional top-down organizations into agile organization in the Financial Service Industry. These approaches are combinations of Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe©), Large-scale Scrum (LeSS), Disciplined Agile Delivery (DAD) and the Spotify tribes. All concepts have in common to follow an enabling leadership concept, which is different to hierarchical management principles and contrary to that is governed by self-leading teams. Based on the specific requirements of regulatory-driven programs, high-complexity, equally business value, high level of audit engagement, dispersed customer need, principal-agent conflict caused information asymmetries, we conclude that the existing four methodologies SAFe©, LeSS, DAD and the sportify tribe model do not fully adhere to the business needs for the transformation into agile organizations for globally distributed corporations. Based on the identified gaps the methodology is refined and enhanced. This leads to the creation of RegSafe2©, the agile management control methodology to convert organizations into agile organizations. RegSafe2© is based on the agile framework and bundles in a mixed-method approach management control system, stakeholder and behavioral economics underpinnings. While management control system intends to align individual activities with organization goals, under agile philosophy self-governing and autonomous teams fulfill objectives set by the organization instead of micro-management. Under agile philosophy enabling leadership concepts are pursued, as teams are expected to self-govern and decide on solutioning without direct management control, which requires agile skilled employees and a commitment to co-work for a mutual goal. Agile transformation requires strong commitment by all involved parties and without a common agile mindset is difficult to accomplish within a short timeframe. Due to that agile transformed and non-agile non-transformed will need to cooperate, as long as not all part of organization are transformed into one model, which is also reflected by RegSafe2©. This article has implications for practitioners and researchers on the transformation of agile organizations and program managers of regulatory-driven programs.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Towards an Agile Organization in the Financial Service Industry - RegSafe2© (September 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
753
RANK
411,549
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies