Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Temporary Reduction in VAT in Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic : A Model-Theoretical Description of Corporate Decisions

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 4 ; 11 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Carmen Bachmann

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christopher Seifert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 16, 2022

Abstract

By reducing the VAT rate, national governments aim to stimulate demand in the expectation that the companies lower their prices. However, the corporations can also maintain the prices and benefit from a higher net profit. Therefore, the paper models the decision-making situation of a company that is confronted with a temporary VAT cut. The authors illustrate the influencing factors on a pass-through decision in a multi-period model by the use of the net present value method. The model is a theoretical explanatory approach to demonstrate why companies not always pass-through a temporary VAT reduction to consumers. Firms can draw direct conclusions from the results and transfer the findings to their decision-making process in the event of future VAT cuts. Furthermore, the model provides advice to fiscal policymakers concerning the effectiveness of temporary VAT reductions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: VAT, COVID-19 pandemic, valuation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Bachmann, Carmen and Seifert, Christopher, Temporary Reduction in VAT in Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic : A Model-Theoretical Description of Corporate Decisions (May 16, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 4 ; 11 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231045
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies