Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Baseball Arbitration : The Trendiest Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism in International Taxation

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2019), no. 8 (special issue) ; 20 p.

Posted: 2 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Luís Flávio Neto

Independent

Date Written: October 3, 2019

Abstract

This study addresses an alternative mechanism for the settlement of international tax disputes: so-called baseball arbitration. Although contracting states are able to adopt several formats to design alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, the author presents a concept of tax treaty baseball arbitration based on the approaches that have been envisaged by various international organizations and states. The article addresses in detail the main features and procedural rules related to baseball arbitration in international tax matters. Among these, special emphasis is placed on the accessory character, mandatory nature, enforceability and scope of the procedure. Other critical issues, such as the selection of the arbitrators, the presentation of offers and supporting arguments, taxpayer participation, secrecy and transparency of the procedure are analysed by anticipating possible practical, policy and legal difficulties that this new approach to tax treaty dispute settlement may raise.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax treaty, dispute resolution, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution, procedural tax law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Neto, Luís Flávio, Baseball Arbitration : The Trendiest Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism in International Taxation (October 3, 2019). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2019), no. 8 (special issue) ; 20 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
469
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies