Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory CSR Reporting in Europe: A Textual Analysis of Firms’ Climate Disclosure Narratives

88 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 15 Nov 2024

Bjarne Brié

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven, Department Accounting, Finance and Insurance; Tilburg University - Department of Accounting & Accountancy

Kristof Stouthuysen

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven

Tim Verdonck

KU Leuven

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

We use innovations in machine learning to develop a comparable measure of firms’ climate disclosure narratives. Specifically, we combine large language model ClimateBERT with a structural topic model to identify and quantify a latent set of climate disclosure topics in annual reports. Using our measure, we examine the evolution of firms’ reporting narratives in the context of the widespread European Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD), which, in 2017, triggered an EU-wide shift from voluntary to mandatory corporate social responsibility disclosure. For a sample of 5,634 annual reports from 2010 to 2022, we find that climate reporting has evolved toward topics that are considered more relevant to investors. Results from difference-in-differences analyses further show that following the NFRD’s announcement and entry-into-force, European firms significantly increased reporting on both financially material and impact material topics as compared to a U.S. benchmark. These reporting changes are stronger for firms that were plausibly more exposed to the mandate, i.e., firms with lower pre-directive levels of disclosure and firms in countries with lower awareness of climate change. Overall, our findings provide systematic evidence on the evolution of climate disclosure in annual reports and shed more light on how the NFRD has impacted firms’ climate reporting practices.

Suggested Citation:

Brié, Bjarne and Stouthuysen, Kristof and Verdonck, Tim, Mandatory CSR Reporting in Europe: A Textual Analysis of Firms’ Climate Disclosure Narratives (November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4231567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S Rajgopal
Are Carbon Emissions Associated with Stock Returns? Review of Finance , volume 28 , p. 75 - 106 Posted: 2024
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S Rajgopal
Are Carbon Emissions Associated with StockReturns?
Reply. Review of Finance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 115 Posted: 2024
A Babcock , A He , V Ramani
Building Investor Trust in Net Zero
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 52 - 59 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,021
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,212
RANK
50,877
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies