Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transformation to Data Analytics in Big-Four Financial Audit: What, Why and How?

Pacific Accounting Review, 34(4), 569-584. DOI: 10.1108/PAR-06-2021-0105.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Angela Liew

University of Auckland Business School

Peter Boxall

University of Auckland Business School

Denny Setiawan

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Purpose
This study aims to explore the implementation of data analytics in the Big-Four accounting firms, including the extent to which a digital transformation is changing the work of financial auditors, why it is doing so and how these firms are managing the transformation process.

Design/methodology/approach
The authors conducted 23 interviews with 20 participants across four hierarchical levels from three of the Big-Four accounting firms in New Zealand.

Findings
The firms have entered the era of “smart audit systems”, in which auditors provide deep business insights that are communicated more effectively through data visualisation. The full potential, however, of data analytics depends not only on the transformation process within accounting firms but also on improvement in the quality of IT systems in client companies. The appointment of transformation managers, the recruitment of technology-savvy graduates and the provision of extensive training are helping to embed data analytics in the Big-Four firms. Accounting graduates in financial audit now need to show that they have the aptitude to become “citizen data scientists”.

Practical implications
The findings explain how data analytics is being embraced in the Big-Four auditing firms and underline the implications for those who work in them.

Originality/value
The findings challenge the “technological reluctance” thesis. In contrast, the authors observe a climate of positive attitudes towards new technology and accompanying actions in the Big-Four firms. The authors show how branches of the Big-Four firms operating distantly from their global headquarters, and with smaller economies of scale, are implementing the new technologies that characterise their global firms.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-06-2021-0105

Keywords: Audit, Audit analytics, Audit revolution, Big data, Data analytics, Smart audit systems

Suggested Citation:

Liew, Angela and Boxall, Peter and Setiawan, Denny, The Transformation to Data Analytics in Big-Four Financial Audit: What, Why and How? ( 2022). Pacific Accounting Review, 34(4), 569-584. DOI: 10.1108/PAR-06-2021-0105., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232615
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies