Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Digital Transformation on Earnings Management——Evidence from China

30 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022

Ximeng Jia

Sichuan University

Tao Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chen Chen

Guangdong University of Technology

Yaoqin Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Firms attach more and more important to digital transformation in the wave of digitalization. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms from 2010 to 2020, this study explores how digital transformation affects earnings management. The results show that digital transformation decreases real earnings management and increases accrual earnings management. The impact of digital transformation on earnings management is more significant in non-state-owned firms, high-tech firms, and firms in the eastern region. Mechanism tests show that digital transformation decreases real earnings management by raising analysts’ following and improving internal control efficiency, increases accrual earnings management by reducing the employment of big four accounting firms, and causes great earnings pressure. The main results are robust after considering the endogeneity, alternative measurements, Heckman two-stage regression, and propensity score matching. This study provides insights into the influence mechanism of digital transformation on business management and provides implications for firms' digital transformation and government regulation.

Keywords: digital transformation, earnings management, Accounting information quality, internal control

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Ximeng and Wang, Tao and Chen, Chen and Li, Yaoqin, The Impact of Corporate Digital Transformation on Earnings Management——Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
613
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,839
RANK
100,600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies