Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Firms’ Business Ties with the Government on Firm-Level CSR Exposure

57 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2022 Last revised: 4 Jan 2023

Zhige Yu

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: October 24, 2022

Abstract

I examine whether US public firms who have business ties with the government choose to disclose corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in their conference calls to meet government CSR demand. My empirical results show an overall positive relationship between these ties and CSR activity disclosures, and this relationship is persistent when a sudden increase of contract renegotiation occurs led by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. In my cross-sectional tests, consistent with two prevalent theories, the political cost and stakeholder theory in the CSR literature, I find that the association between firms with government business ties and their climate change disclosures is more pronounced when firms face higher political costs, higher stakeholder attention, and lower financial constraints. Furthermore, these firms disclose more concrete CSR topics, such as investment opportunities, and general climate change risks in their conference calls. They also provide more social information such as operating-oriented human capital activities. However, public firms with government business ties on average do not significantly pursue as many CSR real actions. Further, their likelihoods of receiving punishments from Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are decreased by the disclosure of more climate change information. Overall, my findings provide a new perspective on the function of government business ties as an indirect regulatory tool or costly reward.

Keywords: Government business, climate change exposure, CSR, social exposure

JEL Classification: G38, H57, M40, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Zhige, Effects of Firms’ Business Ties with the Government on Firm-Level CSR Exposure (October 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,386
RANK
175,011
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies