Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the Women Directors’ Board Attributes Moderate the Link Real Earnings Management − Future Performance? Evidence From French Context

52 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022

Husserl Ossiba

Université Paris Nanterre; Université Lille

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we question the legitimacy of women directors through the performance of their attributes on corporate outcome. The three fundamental questions are the following: Is there a negative causal relationship between real earnings management (REM) and future performance (FP) in France since the gender reform was introduced ? Did the demographic and statutory attributes of women directors moderate this relationship? How did the introduction and enforcement of gender quotas affect the moderation variable on FP? The empirical analysis is conducted from a sample of 155 non-financial firms listed on Euronext Paris Index over the 2011–2016 period. Our results show that REM is negatively significantly associated with Return On Assets and Tobin’s Q one year ahead; and independent, interlocked, and financial expert serving on the audit committee moderate this relationship. The regressions from gender reform evidenced that the quota introduction has a negative effect on the interaction term, while we found a positive effect of the quota enforcement on the interaction term. These results are consistent with Scapin (2015) who stated the cost reduction of gender reform decreased with time. This study contributes to the literature by examining the women directors’ legitimacy through the performance of their statutory and demographic attributes under a gender quota context.

Keywords: Board gender diversity; Board gender quota; Statutory diversity; Demographic diversity; Real earnings management; Corporate performance

JEL Classification: J16 ; K20; M10; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ossiba, Husserl, Do the Women Directors’ Board Attributes Moderate the Link Real Earnings Management − Future Performance? Evidence From French Context (January 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies