Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Threat of Voiced Shareholder Disapproval and the Value of Voting

Journal of Financial Research, volume 48, issue 2, 2025[10.1111/jfir.12417]

42 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Justin Balthrop

University of Kansas

Jonathan Bitting

Appalachian State University - Walker College of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2022

Abstract

We study how granting shareholders an advisory compensation vote affects the subsequent demand for shareholder voting rights. We find that the voting premium decreases when shareholders are given the right to disapprove firm compensation plans, consistent with shareholders preemptively negotiating concessions, which results in a diminished need to use their votes. Potential concessions extend beyond compensation; firms that experience a decrease in voting premiums also experience changes to investment and dividend policy, as well as the number of independent directors. The same firms experience positive abnormal stock returns over the following year.

Keywords: Governance, Shareholder Voting, Institutional Investors, Say-on-Pay

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J33

Suggested Citation:

Balthrop, Justin and Bitting, Jonathan, The Threat of Voiced Shareholder Disapproval and the Value of Voting (September 30, 2022). Journal of Financial Research, volume 48, issue 2, 2025[10.1111/jfir.12417], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4233492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jfir.12417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies