Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping collective action in financial markets through the development of popular expertise: An analysis of Due Diligence posts on WallStreetBets

82 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2022 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Alexandre Madelaine

Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: December 19, 2023

Abstract

Traditional forms of expertise are increasingly challenged in different domains, not least because of the possibilities offered by the Internet. We aim to understand how a claim to popular expertise in the domain of investment narratives emerged, developed, and propagated on digital platforms – to the point of thwarting the ambitions of notorious hedge funds. Specifically, we examine the claim to popular expertise as articulated in the r/WallStreetBets (WSB) community, which disrupted the stock prices of several “meme” stocks (e.g., GameStop) by disseminating influential investment narratives. We study the 150 most upvoted Due Diligence (DD) posts representing 165,293 words (531 pages) of analysis from WSB. We also interviewed eight members of the WSB community (including six authors of DD posts). First, we show that the claim to popular expertise took off in the wake of growing resentment among retail investors about the lack of fairness in financial markets. Second, we find that, to appeal to their audience, WSB authors developed and promoted a claim to popular expertise which consists of a hybrid language between traditional financial expertise and an accessible and entertaining writing style, complemented by references to pop culture. Therefore, the rift with traditional financial expertise is not total, as popular experts rely on it to increase the resonance of their investment narratives. Theoretically, our paper improves our understanding of popular forms of investment expertise sustained by market participants who unexpectedly became influential in digital platforms and financial markets, and thus de facto became new information intermediaries.

Keywords: Collective action; Digital platforms; Fairness; Financial markets; Information intermediaries; Investment narratives; Popular expertise; Social movement; WallStreetBets

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves and Madelaine, Alexandre and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé, Shaping collective action in financial markets through the development of popular expertise: An analysis of Due Diligence posts on WallStreetBets (December 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4234609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4234609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
170 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions. An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
P Agrawal , T Buz , G De Melo
WallStreetBets beyond GameStop, YOLOs, and the moon: The unique traits of Reddit's finance communities. University of Potsdam: Available at Posted: 2022
M Akrich , V Rabeharisoa , G Eyal , Medvetz
On the multiplicity of lay expertise: An empirical and analytical overview of patient associations' achievements and challenges
The Oxford handbook of expertise and democratic politics Posted: 2023
M Alvesson
The triumph of emptiness: Consumption, higher education, & work organization Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,968
RANK
140,484
3 Citations
170 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies