Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of CSR and ESG Investment Decisions: A Real Option Insight

60 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2022 Last revised: 22 Jan 2023

Lilianne Bastos de Sá Borges

IAG Business School, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio)

Marco Antonio Guimarães Dias

Petrobras/E&P/Gerer/Corfex

Antonio Carlos Figueiredo Pinto

Independent

Date Written: September 25, 2022

Abstract

We studied the rationales of investing in CSR/ESG, drawing on recent empirical research articles on CSR/ESG to choose four different perpetual real options models that emulate the decision to become a socially responsible firm, to invest in CSR/ESG to capture goodwill in a crisis, to stop investing in CSR/ESG, and the possibility of CSR/ESG becoming valueless. We perform sensitivity analyses on the four models to arrive at general conclusions about incentives and disincentives to CSR/ESG investing. Our results suggest that the investment in CSR/ESG is likely more accessible and beneficial to larger and stronger firms, and highly dependent on the positive appreciation of investors and regulators and widespread adoption.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environmental Social and Governance (ESG), Investment Decisions, Real Options

Suggested Citation:

Bastos de Sá Borges, Lilianne and Guimarães Dias, Marco Antonio and Pinto, Antonio Carlos Figueiredo, Analysis of CSR and ESG Investment Decisions: A Real Option Insight (September 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4234791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4234791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
276,216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies