Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Elon Musk Effect: How Community Initiative Spending Impacts Earned Social Media Valuation

RISK GOVERNANCE AND CONTROL: FINANCIAL MARKETS & INSTITUTIONS / Volume 12 /Issue 3 / 2022

15 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Mfon Akpan

Northeastern State University - College of Business & Technology

Date Written: September 9, 2022

Abstract

This research study measures Uber’s community support initiatives’ return on investment (ROI). The company examined is Uber Technologies Inc. (Uber), which donates time and resources to support communities in need after natural disasters or lack social support. This study will take a quantitative approach by measuring the value of Uber’s community support initiatives’ earned media. The research will use a case study analysis to investigate how companies like Uber generate and assess the ROI of their social enterprise investments. This research is timely as it speaks to the current discourse on practical ways for businesses to create social impact and how to measure that impact. In addition, the research will use a combination of primary and secondary sources. This study will collect primary data through social media, and the secondary data will come from media valuation indices and sentiment analysis. The findings of this study will have implications for both Uber and other companies that engage in community support initiatives. For Uber, this study will provide insights into how the company can optimize its community support initiatives to generate the most significant ROI. For other companies, this study will serve as a case study for effectively measuring the ROI of community support initiatives.

Keywords: Instagram, Social Media, Managerial Accounting, Earned Media, Strategy, Uber

JEL Classification: M40, M41, Z33, G32, O32

Suggested Citation:

Akpan, Mfon, The Elon Musk Effect: How Community Initiative Spending Impacts Earned Social Media Valuation (September 9, 2022). RISK GOVERNANCE AND CONTROL: FINANCIAL MARKETS & INSTITUTIONS / Volume 12 /Issue 3 / 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4234522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
RANK
409,437
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies