Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subsidiary Governance and Corporate Tax Planning: The Effect of Parent-Subsidiary Common Directors and Officers

Forthcoming in Journal of Management Accounting Research (JMAR)

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-199

41 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2022 Last revised: 1 Dec 2022

Xin Wang

The University of Hong Kong

Yongxin Xu

Monash University

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gaoping Zheng

RMIT University

Date Written: September 7, 2022

Abstract

Top executives of the parent company often take positions as the directors and officers (D&Os) of subsidiaries. These parent-subsidiary common D&Os have better access to subsidiary information and can exert more influence over subsidiary operations. Therefore they can better identify tax planning opportunities and coordinate tax arrangements. Using the mandatory disclosure of top executives’ subsidiary positions for Chinese listed firms, we find that effective income tax rate is lower for firms with common D&Os. The tax-saving effect is stronger for firms with more intangible assets and with related-party transactions involving subsidiaries. The effect is also stronger when common D&Os have positions in economically significant subsidiaries and the subsidiaries entitled to preferential tax treatment and when common D&Os are involved in daily subsidiary operations. To our knowledge, this paper is the first to study the role of subsidiary governance in general and common D&Os in particular in corporate tax-planning.

Keywords: Tax planning, subsidiary governance, common directors and officers (D&Os)

JEL Classification: M40, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xin and Xu, Yongxin and Zhang, Liandong and Zheng, Gaoping, Subsidiary Governance and Corporate Tax Planning: The Effect of Parent-Subsidiary Common Directors and Officers (September 7, 2022). Forthcoming in Journal of Management Accounting Research (JMAR), Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-199, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Akhtar , F Akhtar , K John , S W Wong
Multinationals' tax evasion: A financial and governance perspective
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 57 , p. 35 - 62 Posted: 2019
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
B Badertscher , S Katz , S Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
RANK
315,603
4 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies