Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communicating Corporate Culture in Labor Markets: Evidence from Job Postings

50 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2022 Last revised: 16 May 2024

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Terrence Tianshuo Shi

UCLA Anderson

Yuan Zou

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

We examine how firms craft their job postings to convey information about their culture and whether doing so helps attract employees. We utilize state-of-the-art machine learning methods to develop a comprehensive dictionary of key corporate values across the near universe of job postings. Our analyses demonstrate that culture information in job postings helps firms better attract job seekers, as it is associated with higher worker inflows, shorter job posting vacancies, and lower subsequent worker outflows. Culture information has a more pronounced effect on worker inflows when job seekers face information frictions in learning about culture through other sources. Additional analyses indicate that interviews are more likely to lead to job offers for firms highlighting culture in their job postings, indicating that culture information helps job seekers sort into culturally fit companies. Overall, our findings suggest that job postings are an important mechanism for communicating cultural values to prospective employees.

Keywords: Corporate Culture; Information Asymmetry; Job Search and Mobility; Job Postings

JEL Classification: C45; D83; M14; J63

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Allen H. and Pacelli, Joseph and Shi, Terrence Tianshuo and Zou, Yuan, Communicating Corporate Culture in Labor Markets: Evidence from Job Postings (April 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4235342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
S Agarwal , Y Lin , Y Zhang , Z Zhang
Labor mobility and loan origination
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2023
G Akerlof , R Kranton
Ide and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
S Allie
The implications of writing a bad job description Posted: 2016
N Ashraf , O Bandiera , E Davenport , S Lee
Losing prosociality in the quest for talent? sorting, selection, and productivity in the delivery of public services
American Economic Review , volume 110 , p. 1355 - 1394 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,080
RANK
25,483
6 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies