Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Banks Save Mountains?

Review of Corporate Finance Studies, forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2022 Last revised: 24 May 2023

David Haushalter

Pennsylvania State University - Mary Jean and Frank P. Smeal College of Business Administration

Joseph J. Henry

Northeastern University (USA) - D’Amore-McKim School of Business

Peter Iliev

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

We study bank policies to limit lending to companies engaged in mountaintop removal (MTR) coal mining, a form of coal extraction that has raised many environmental concerns. Using the staggered introduction of these policies, we document that these policies did not lead to meaningful changes in average bank lending or MTR mining. However, larger banks, banks that are under media pressure, and banks operating in the affected states are more likely to reduce MTR loans. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that banks announced these policies under pressure and to improve their green credentials.

Keywords: Bank Lending, Financing, Environment, ESG, Coal

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Haushalter, David and Henry, Joseph J. and Iliev, Peter, Can Banks Save Mountains? (October 1, 2022). Review of Corporate Finance Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4235243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
RANK
344,140
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies