Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and IPO Underpricing: Evidence from Federal Judge Ideology

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2022 Last revised: 1 May 2025

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Abhinav Goyal

University of Birmingham; University College Cork

Madhu Veeraraghavan

T.A. PAI Management Institute, Finance Area

Leon Zolotoy

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

Using federal judge ideology as an exogenous measure of issuing firms’ ex ante litigation risk, we document that the initial public offerings (IPOs) of the firms headquartered in more liberal circuits are more underpriced. The effect is mitigated when plaintiffs’ pleading standards are more stringent and is amplified when the judges have more discretion in their decisions. The effect is also amplified among “deep pocket” issuing firms, while it is mitigated among issuing firms hiring reputable intermediaries in the IPO process. The results of additional analysis suggest that issuing firms located in more liberal circuits are more likely to become targets of lawsuits in the post-IPO period and that these lawsuits are less likely to be dismissed by the courts and result in larger settlements. Collectively, our findings underscore the salience of litigation risk stemming from the issuing firms’ legal environment in driving IPO underpricing.

Keywords: Litigation risk, IPO underpricing, federal judge ideology, liberal circuits

JEL Classification: G10, G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Goyal, Abhinav and Veeraraghavan, Madhu and Zolotoy, Leon, Litigation Risk and IPO Underpricing: Evidence from Federal Judge Ideology (May 01, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4235582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
293,623
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies