Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping the Literature of Internal Auditing in Europe: A Systematic Review and Agenda for Future Research

Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022

S. A. Hazaea

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics; Al jazeera univerisity

Jinyu Zhu

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: September 29, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Despite many firms are investing considerable resources in building and designing strong and effective internal auditing (IA) to improve corporate governance and internal control processes, IA literature is still relatively fragmented. This article provides a systematic review of studies on IA in twenty-seven (27) European countries and the United Kingdom (UK).

Design/methodology/approach: Based on the Scopus database, 142 papers published between 1987 and 2022 were analysed. The study focused on evaluating and analysing the characteristics of literature and the themes investigated with a focus on four key aspects: governance, the effectiveness of IA, the relationship between internal auditors and other parties, and risk management to provide directions for future research.

Findings: The study found that IA literature did not provide the integrated knowledge of internal audit functions (IAFs) and the factors that could contribute to their implementation as required. The results showed that UK, Greece and Italy dominate the published literature in terms of the number of studies. There are a few studies that investigate IA in private institutions and non-profit organisations. Interestingly, a vast majority of studies are not based on the theoretical ground. The results also showed that there is an absence of studies that discuss the impact of cultural and political systems as well as the demographic characteristics of auditors on the implementation of IAFs.

Originality/value: This study is useful for researchers, organisations, and regulators as it contributes to the literature by highlighting the intellectual development of IA in the European counties and the UK and providing several directions for future studies. To the best of our knowledge, this research is the first study to use a systematic review approach in evaluating the intellectual development of IA research in the European countries, identifying areas and elements that received less attention in previous studies and providing a roadmap for future studies.

Keywords: Internal auditing, Internal audit quality, Risk management, Corporate governance, External auditors, Audit committee, European Union, The UK

Suggested Citation:

Hazaea, Saddam A and Zhu, Jinyu and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Khatib, Saleh F. A., Mapping the Literature of Internal Auditing in Europe: A Systematic Review and Agenda for Future Research (September 29, 2022). Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
298,527
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies