Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditors’ Role in Organizational Innovation: A Social Network Perspective

45 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Anna Katharina Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 3, 2022

Abstract

Organizations use innovations to adapt, grow their business, and differentiate themselves from their competitors. However, innovations can introduce new risks to the organization that the internal audit function (IAF) should address. We interview and survey internal auditors about how they respond to innovations, such as the use of emerging technologies, adopted by their organizations. We find that social network theory provides a useful lens through which to interpret our interview results and to guide our survey development and analysis. In particular, we find that the embeddedness of the internal auditors with management, but not with the audit committee, is a key factor in internal auditors’ ability to prepare for and effectively respond to innovation. Furthermore, we find that IAFs that are better able to prepare for innovations are more likely to increase staff and improve the mix of staff skills to effectively respond to innovation. Also, when organizations rely on outsourced IAFs, we find that those IAFs are less prepared for, but respond more effectively to innovations. These findings reveal that social network factors are important for internal auditors to develop embeddedness and to be prepared for and effective in their response to innovation in their organizations.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Emerging Technology, Innovation, Relational Embeddedness, Social Network Theory

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Margaret H. and Eulerich, Anna Katharina and Eulerich, Marc and Wood, David A., Internal Auditors’ Role in Organizational Innovation: A Social Network Perspective (October 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4236769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4236769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
RANK
275,154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies