Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
He, Him, His: Masculine Language in Professional Guidance and Assessed Equity and Inclusion of Women and LGBTQ People in the Profession

78 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 12 Nov 2022

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

Three experiments examine how the use of masculine language in professional guidance affects assessments of the equity and inclusion of historically marginalized gender and sexual orientation groups in the accounting profession. Experiment 1 manipulates the pronouns used in auditing standards as masculine vs. gender-inclusive, and finds that masculine pronouns reduce accounting professionals’ assessed equity and inclusion of women and LGBTQ+ people in the audit profession. Participant gender also has an effect, with women making lower overall equity and inclusion assessments. In Experiment 2, college students read a neutral-language accounting job ad as well as professional guidance that uses masculine vs. gender-inclusive pronouns, and assess the accounting profession’s equity and inclusion of women and LGBTQ+ people. Masculine pronouns reduce students’ equity and inclusion assessments, and this effect is stronger for women and LGBTQ+ participants. In Experiment 3, LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ U.S. residents assess the equity and inclusion of LGBTQ+ people in accounting. Pronouns have a stronger effect on LGBTQ+ than non-LGBTQ+ participants. Further, for LGBTQ+ participants, the effect of pronouns is not conditioned on participant gender; however, pronouns affect non-LGBTQ+ women’s, but not non-LGBTQ+ men’s, assessments of LGBTQ+ equity and inclusion.

Keywords: auditing standards, gender, LGBTQ+, bias, equity, inclusion

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Peytcheva, Marietta, He, Him, His: Masculine Language in Professional Guidance and Assessed Equity and Inclusion of Women and LGBTQ People in the Profession (October 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4236864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4236864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
RANK
453,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies