Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passive Investors and Audit Quality: Evidence from the U.S.

Forthcoming in European Accounting Review.

45 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Antonio B. Vazquez

CUNEF Universidad

Date Written: October 3, 2022

Abstract

The rise of index funds, or passive investing, in recent decades has caused heated debates over the efficacy of passive investors’ stewardship role in corporate governance. Our study adds to this emerging line of literature by examining whether passive investors enhance the quality of financial statement audits, a key aspect of corporate governance mechanisms. We follow Appel et al. (2016) in exploiting the yearly Russell index reassignment, which provides us with an ideal setting to study the causal relation between passive institutional investors (i.e., index trackers) and firms’ audit quality. Examining firms closely surrounding the Russell 1000/2000 cutoff line, we find that higher passive ownership leads to higher audit quality proxied by audit fees. To investigate the channel through which passive investors influence audit-related governance issues, our evidence from auditor ratification voting records suggests that passive investors do ‘voice’ their opinion on low-quality audits. Such effort also leads to a higher likelihood of auditor turnover in the following year. In the cross-sectional analysis, we also find that the positive effect of passive investors on audit quality is more pronounced in firms with higher agency costs. Thus, our study supports the view that passive investors play an active role in improving corporate governance.

Keywords: auditing, passive ownership, Russel index

JEL Classification: M41, G10, G30

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Ting and Eugster, Florian and Vazquez, Antonio B., Passive Investors and Audit Quality: Evidence from the U.S. (October 3, 2022). Forthcoming in European Accounting Review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4236539 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4236539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
464,511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies