Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Issues and Career Prospects of Directors: Evidence from the International Director Labor Market

Financial Markets, Institutions and Instruments, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Gonul Colak

University of Sussex ; Hanken School of Economics

Timo Korkeamaki

Aalto University - Aalto University School of Business, Department of Finance, Students

Kent Hickman

Gonzaga Univesity

Niclas Oskar Meyer

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: May 28, 2022

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms, we investigate the career prospects of directors of firms experiencing negative ESG issues. By tracking the same director at the same firm over time, we document a significant drop in seats held at other public firms’ boards following intense negative media coverage of an ESG problem occurring at a given director’s focal firm. Losses of seats at other firms are concentrated among executive directors, among directors of firms located in countries with high environmental and social norms, and among directors of firms located in countries with bank-based systems. Nonexecutive directors and directors of firms located in less stakeholder-oriented countries are not penalized for ESG issues by the director labor market.

Keywords: Director Career Prospects, Director Labor Market, ESG, Stakeholder Orientation, Shareholder Value, Legal Origin

JEL Classification: G34, M14, A13, G15

Suggested Citation:

Colak, Gonul and Korkeamaki, Timo and Hickman, Kent and Meyer, Niclas Oskar, ESG Issues and Career Prospects of Directors: Evidence from the International Director Labor Market (May 28, 2022). Financial Markets, Institutions and Instruments, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4237999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
RANK
682,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies