Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity Risk and Corporate Cash Holdings

Posted: 18 Oct 2022

Jan Pieter Veerhoek

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance; Maastricht University

Date Written: October 4, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the effect of cybersecurity risk on the level of corporate cash holdings. Using a large sample of U.S. firms over the period 2007-2017, we find that when cybersecurity risk is higher, firms hold more cash. In addition, we find that the effect of cybersecurity risk is moderated by corporate governance quality. In the case of higher corporate governance quality firms that are confronted with cybersecurity risk hold less cash. Further, we find that financially unconstrained firms have higher cybersecurity risks and act on this by increasing their cash holdings. The findings are robust to alternative measures of cybersecurity risk and cash holdings.

Keywords: Cash holdings, Corporate governance, Cybersecurity

JEL Classification: G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Veerhoek, Jan Pieter, Cybersecurity Risk and Corporate Cash Holdings (October 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4237550
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies