Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Audit Committee Characteristics and Earnings Management: Evidence from Firms Listed on the Egyptian Stock Market

29 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Mohammed Soliman

Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport

Date Written: October 5, 2022

Abstract

Audit committees have drawn more attention globally during the past 20 years. The audit committee, one of the core elements of corporate governance systems, is a powerful tool for regulating and overseeing management. It could have a big impact on how internal firm-board monitoring decisions are made. This study seeks to identify the unique contributions made by each proxy and to provide compelling evidence that demonstrates how an Audit Committee mechanism affects Earnings Management. This paper aims to investigate how the audit committee’s characteristics affect earnings management in Egypt. Using a sample of 80 non-financial Egyptian companies listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange for the eight financial years from 2012 to 2019. Audit Committee characteristics are represented by Audit Committee independence, Audit Committee size, the frequency of Audit Committee meetings, Audit Committee expertise, and Audit committee gender. Discretionary accruals are used as a proxy for Earnings Management. Panel data regression was used in the archival modeling study. Using a multiple regression model to test the relationship among the variables, the results provide evidence that Audit Committee Size, Audit Committee Expertise and Audit Committee Gender have a significant negative relationship on Earnings Management. Also, there is no significant relationship between Audit Committee Meetings and Earnings Management. Audit Committee Independence has a positive and significant relationship with Earnings Management. This study offers numerous recommendations to the regulatory authorities in Egypt on how to improve and strengthen the internal governance systems of businesses, particularly the Audit Committee.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Audit Committee’s Characteristics, Earnings Management, Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Soliman, Mohammed Moustafa, The Relation between Audit Committee Characteristics and Earnings Management: Evidence from Firms Listed on the Egyptian Stock Market (October 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4238840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4238840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
366,257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies