Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Ownership and Corporate ESG Performance: Empirical Evidence from China

10 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2022

Mingjun Deng

Hunan University of Science and Technology

Ren Peng

Hunan University of Science and Technology

Xusheng Fang

Hunan University of Science and Technology

Wenbing Luo

Hunan University of Science and Technology

Abstract

Building and improving the ESG information disclosure system is an important way to achieve the "carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals". This paper studies the relationship between the basic characteristics of foreign shareholders and ESG based on two-step estimation and PSM. We conclude that the characteristics of foreign investors have a significant impact on ESG performance. After further research, we also found that media attention and cash dividends also have different moderating effects on corporate ESG ratings.

Keywords: ESG, Foreign ownership, Halo effect

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingjun and Peng, Ren and Fang, Xusheng and Luo, Wenbing, Foreign Ownership and Corporate ESG Performance: Empirical Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4238961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
373,551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies