Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation of Loss Firms: A Stock Market Perspective

37 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2023

Hannes Mohrschladt

University of Muenster - Finance Center

Susanne Siedhoff

University of Muenster - Finance Center

Date Written: August 4, 2022

Abstract

The proportion of exchange-listed firms with negative earnings has increased to over 40% in recent years. Given that the fundamental value of these loss firms is difficult to determine, we expect particularly strong value effects among these firms. We find that the return predictability associated with book-to-market and revenue-to-price is indeed significantly stronger compared to gain firms. Our further analyses on financial analysts, earnings announcement returns, short selling activities, option trading, and limits to arbitrage support a behavioral mechanism for our main finding.

Keywords: Loss Firms, Firm Valuation, Value Effect, Stock Mispricing

JEL Classification: G02, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mohrschladt, Hannes and Siedhoff, Susanne, The Valuation of Loss Firms: A Stock Market Perspective (August 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4239613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4239613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
218,186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies