Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment After M&A: Acquisition-Level Evidence

49 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2022 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

James Potepa

American University - Accounting

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Date Written: October 6, 2022

Abstract

To provide a fuller picture of compliance with SFAS 142, we hand-collect data to track 893 large acquisitions. Our model, which links impairments to post-acquisition performance declines and acquisition-year attributes, identifies 349 acquisitions as likely to impair. We expand compliance to include both acquisitions that impair when first predicted to impair as well as those that wait for a year or two, and impair (elect not to impair) if the initial performance decline is permanent (temporary). Moving to this broader view increases compliance rates from 15 to 65 percent of acquisitions predicted to impair. Our model should be useful to future research as it clarifies the role of hand-collection, market to book ratios, segment level data, and volatility. We offer descriptive evidence on impairment patterns, and find only limited evidence of acquirers taking big baths in the year of impairment. Overall, we find high levels of compliance and little opportunism.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment, SFAS 142, conditional conservatism, mergers and acquisitions

Suggested Citation:

Potepa, James and Thomas, Jacob, Goodwill Impairment After M&A: Acquisition-Level Evidence (October 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4239812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4239812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
RANK
212,316
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies