Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crisis at the Audit Committee: Challenges of a Post-Pandemic World

43 Review of Banking and Financial Law,  119 (2023-24)

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 23-39

74 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2022 Last revised: 9 Mar 2025

Bernice Donald

Independent

Brian Elzweig

University of West Florida

Neal F. Newman

Texas A&M University School of Law

H. Justin Pace

Western Carolina University - College of Business

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Date Written: October 6, 2022

Abstract

Company boards and their audit committees must constantly be aware of developments impacting them. The last five decades has witnessed a continuing growth and maturity in recognition of the importance of the board’s audit committee to the conduct of corporate governance. During the past two years alone, corporate audit committees have been faced with significant stressors: the global Covid-pandemic; resultant disruption to supply chains; war in Europe and decline in economic growth combined with rampant inflation; increased global political instability; continued cyber-attacks, and increased regulatory disclosure demands resulting from threatening climate change and disruptive technological advances. In this paper we focus on the audit committee and examine the hostile contemporary environment in which it must operate.

Our article proceeds in nine parts. First, we explore the law of the audit committee. Second is a discussion of the history of the audit committee --- how it operates; role of the financial expert; Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); and Sarbanes-Oxley Act. A brief but important reflection on the impact of the regulatory responses and mandates resulting from rapid technological advances is covered as our third topic. Fourth, we focus on the importance of auditing cyber risk. Fifth is coverage and reflection upon the audit demands occasioned by the current global pandemic --- conducting audits remotely; logistical issues; accounting estimates; and going concern issues. Sixth, we discuss audit-related legal issues arising from the impact of climate change. Seventh, the importance of and challenges resulting from the audit committee recruitment process is covered. Eighth, we examine contemporary challenges and resources not mentioned previously. And last, we conclude. We believe this article makes a valuable contribution to the literature on this important topic by examining these challenges brought about by unique historical developments.

Keywords: accounting, audit committee, auditing, bitcoin, blockchain, board of directors, climate change, compliance, corporate governance, cyber, FCPA, financial expert, fraud, FTX, nominating and governance, pandemic, regulation, Sarbanes-Oxley, SEC, securities, Theranos

JEL Classification: G32, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Donald, Bernice and Elzweig, Brian and Newman, Neal F. and Pace, H. Justin and Trautman, Lawrence J., Crisis at the Audit Committee: Challenges of a Post-Pandemic World (October 6, 2022). 43 Review of Banking and Financial Law,  119 (2023-24), Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 23-39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4240080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4240080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Sarbanes-Oxley §301
Exchange Act §10A(m)(5) and
U S C
, p. 78 - 79
Rock Hazard
Independent Directors Counsel, supra note 98 , p. 6 - 7
Id , M Peter , Collins
utside Counsel Sarbanes-xley Act Creates a New Role for the Audit Committee , volume 228 Posted: 2002-10-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,410
RANK
78,677
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies