Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards of a Feather: Homophily in Foreign Director Appointments Around the World

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022

Posted: 10 Nov 2022

John Manuel Barrios

Yale School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Dhananjay Nanda

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine how similarity in institutional, legal, and social characteristics between a firm's and its directors’ home countries, that is, country-pair homophily, affects foreign director appointments. We estimate a gravity model that includes economic and geographic proximity and find that country-pair homophily is a significant determinant of foreign director appointments to corporate boards. We also find that country-pair homophily limits the appointments of foreign directors from high-quality governance countries to firms located in low-quality governance countries, which may reduce the role of board internationalization in promoting the global convergence of governance practices. We analyze changes in foreign director appointments around the international adoption of IFRS and Norway's gender-quota rule and find a higher appointment likelihood for directors originating from countries that are institutionally and culturally similar to that of the firm. Our findings point to the critical role that country-pair homophily plays in matching director to boards with implications for the diffusion of governance practices globally.

Keywords: Corporate governance; foreign directors; gravity model; homophily; culture; International Financial Reporting Standards; gender quota

JEL Classification: F16, F66, G30, G34, J60

Suggested Citation:

Barrios, John Manuel and Bianchi, Pietro A. and Isidro, Helena and Nanda, Dhananjay, Boards of a Feather: Homophily in Foreign Director Appointments Around the World (September 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241195
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies