Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Failures in Bangladeshi Apparel Industry: An Agency Theory Perspective

International Journal of Supply Chain Management, 2022

10 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Rahnuma Siddika

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Sibbir Ahmad

Michigan State University

Date Written: October 8, 2022

Abstract

The apparel industry's complex global supply chain makes it difficult to monitor the upstream firms' Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices. However, CSR failure in any stage of the supply chain also damages the downstream fashion brands’ reputation and profitability. In recent years, customers' sensitivity towards environmental, social, and worker safety has strikingly increased, which holds fashion brands responsible for CSR failures, although they do not have complete control over overseas manufacturing firms. Several cases of apparel industry CSR failures in Bangladesh attracted global attention in the last decade. This study explores why CSR practices in the fashion industry's global supply chain are susceptible to implementation failures, particularly in the Bangladeshi apparel industry, and how they could be mitigated. Agency theory deals with the issues related to principal-agent conflicts arising from information asymmetry. So, agency theory helps understand the CSR implementation problem and possible solutions. The findings from the cases this study went through explain that CSR failures in the supply chain negatively affect the reputation of the fashion brands because consumers want to know more about the supply chain, where the products they are purchasing are coming from, who produces, and how; and they value the corporate social responsibly (CSR) practices in the manufacturing stage. Therefore, implementing a good and sustainable CSR policy is a major concern of retailers. Information asymmetry and goal conflicts among the contracting parties (Principal and agent) lead to adverse selection, moral hazard, and hold-up problems in maintaining a standard CSR practice. This study delves into these issues through the lens of agency theory and shows that agency theory instruments are suitable to explain the apparel industry's global supply chain relationships and compliance mechanisms and figure out the possible implications. Therefore, agency theory can help mitigate the CSR failures of Bangladesh's Ready-Made Garments (RMG) industry.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Corporate Social Responsibility, Apparel Industry, Supply Chain Management, Ready-made Garments, Fashion Brands, Bangladesh, RMG sector, Rana Plaza, Tazreen Fashion

JEL Classification: A11, M11, M14, M21

Suggested Citation:

Siddika, Rahnuma and Ahmad, Sibbir, CSR Failures in Bangladeshi Apparel Industry: An Agency Theory Perspective (October 8, 2022). International Journal of Supply Chain Management, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
143,763
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies