Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Involvement of Component Auditors in Multinational Group Audits: Determinants, Audit Quality, and Audit Fees

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Elizabeth Carson

RMIT University; University of New South Wales

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Ulrike Thuerheimer

University of Amsterdam

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We study what determines the involvement of component auditors in multinational enterprise (MNE) group audits and the association with audit quality and audit fees. Using unique Australian disclosures of group audit fees paid to the principal and component auditors, we first document that MNE complexity, MNE internationalization, and auditor characteristics are associated with component auditor involvement, and extent and type of component auditor involvement. Next, we find that involvement of component auditors benefits audit quality as long as the principal auditor conducts a substantial amount of work. Once the involvement of component auditors exceeds a certain level, audit quality decreases. We also document that audit fees are higher in the presence of a component auditor and increase with the extent of involvement, irrespective of component auditor type. Our results contribute to the emerging literature on group audits and provide empirical evidence on regulatory concerns about group audit quality.

Keywords: group audit, component auditor, multinational audit, audit quality, audit fees

JEL Classification: G18, L84, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Carson, Elizabeth and Simnett, Roger and Thuerheimer, Ulrike and Vanstraelen, Ann, Involvement of Component Auditors in Multinational Group Audits: Determinants, Audit Quality, and Audit Fees (September 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022, UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241220
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
567
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies