Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Firm-Level Political Risk on Tax Avoidance

49 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2022

Sasin Pringpong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sakkakom Maneenop

Thammasat University - Thammasat Business School

Anutchanat Jaroenjitrkam

Thammasat University - Thammasat Business School

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of firm-level political risk on corporate tax avoidance and finds strong evidence that firms reduce tax avoidance activity in the presence of heightening firm-level political risk. This relation is robust to measures used to address endogeneity concerns and absolved accrual managements. The subsample analysis shows that US firms are more tax-sensitive to heterogenous political risk, compared to firms in countries mandated by the IFRS system. Further analysis reveals that the motivation for tax compliance under political pressure is stronger for financially unconstrained firms, socially responsible firms, and high market power firms. Overall, the findings contribute to the existing literature on political risk and tax avoidance in several meaningful ways and further highlight the importance of political risk at the firm level.

Keywords: firm-level political risk, political uncertainty, tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness

Suggested Citation:

Pringpong, Sasin and Maneenop, Sakkakom and Jaroenjitrkam, Anutchanat, The Effect of Firm-Level Political Risk on Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4243954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
545,411
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies