Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management in M&A Transactions

9 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Prerna Jain Kala

Karnataka State Law University

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

Demanding more detailed reporting to the Board on risks related with the target particular profitability and the takeover, as well as an assessment of the target's risk monitoring and analysis methods, benefits directors of acquiring businesses in Mergers and Acquisitions deals. This evaluation can serve as a useful gauge of the likelihood of unanticipated difficulties arising, allowing the firm and its directors to avoid lawsuits while maximising shareholder value. Completing such an examination, on the other hand, comes with its own set of challenges. Transactions are frequently completed in a short amount of time. Obtaining risk-related data during an acquisition might be difficult for management. Targets aren't always honest about how they handle the risks that their company faces. Information is commonly "sugar-coated," which might minimise the likelihood and extent of a possible problem, or exaggerate the efficiency of a solution. Mergers and Acquisitions transactions offer a good diverse range of options for business improvement. The magnitude of the capital, the purchase price, the orientation of the operation, the kind of transaction, and so on in the use of contemporary comparative transactional analysis and company valuation methodologies is extremely important. In today's fast-paced world, high-stakes environment, dealmakers in private equity, the environment are confronted with one-of-a-kind and ever-increase monetary exposures. The relevance of risk management in general, as well as the risks involved in Mergers and Acquisitions procedures, has grown in response to the changing dynamism of the contemporary external environment. This is quickly being one of the most pressing issues in business, with no clear answer in sight. This paper is based on a comprehensive assessment of the primary risks of Mergers and Acquisitions and is categorised in the literature, as well as the magnitude of their impact. The relevance of risks is determined. This paper seeks to induce buyers for early detection of dangers, judge their importance, and, among many other things, help to the deployment of successful management practises as the risk management choices are made by management.

Keywords: Merger, acquisitions, M&A, corporate, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Jain Kala, Prerna, Risk Management in M&A Transactions (October 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4243084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4243084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
182,965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies