Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' use of subjectively verifiable evidence when estimating the deferred tax asset valuation allowance

57 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2022

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Andrew Schmidt

North Carolina State University

Date Written: June 24, 2024

Abstract

Accounting standards and practitioner guides emphasize prioritizing objectively verifiable evidence over subjectively verifiable evidence when assessing the deferred tax asset valuation allowance (DTAVA). We empirically examine the relative weight of objectively verifiable versus subjectively verifiable evidence in determining the DTAVA. While we find managers generally assign larger weights to objectively verifiable evidence, we also find that managers overweight subjectively verifiable factors when determining the DTAVA, especially among observations with cumulative book losses, which is inconsistent with guidance from GAAP and practitioners. Next, we document a positive association between using subjectively verifiable evidence to determine the DTAVA and adverse tax-related financial reporting outcomes. Finally, we examine SEC comment letters that identify issues related to firm-specific DTAVA estimates. We find consistent evidence that the SEC criticizes firms' usage of subjective evidence when determining the DTAVA. Our study enhances researchers' understanding of the DTAVA by providing large sample evidence on the extent to which firms rely on subjectively verifiable evidence to determine the DTAVA and the adverse financial reporting consequences of this reliance.

Keywords: Deferred tax asset valuation allowance; subjective evidence; objective evidence; taxrelated financial reporting outcomes, Financial Reporting Quality, Verifiable, Faithful Representation, SEC Comment Letters

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Lewellen, Christina and Schmidt, Andrew P., Firms' use of subjectively verifiable evidence when estimating the deferred tax asset valuation allowance (June 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244914 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4244914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C C Bauman , M P Bauman , R F Halsey
Do firms use the deferred tax asset valuation allowance to manage earnings
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 23 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2001
B K Behn , T V Eaton , J R Williams
The determinants of the deferred tax allowance account under SFAS No. 109
Accounting Horizons , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 78 Posted: 1998
A Bruehne , M Jacob
Corporate tax avoidance and the real effects of taxation: A review Posted: 2019
C A Cassell , L M Dreher , L A Myers
Reviewing the SEC's review process: 10-K comment letters and the cost of remediation
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 1875 - 1908 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
451,432
5 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies