Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability reporting in Asia: Are the EU’s initiatives the benchmark for ESG disclosure in the region?

Tech Report, Mazars Japan: Tokyo

56 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Kim Schumacher

Kyushu University - Institute for Asian and Oceanian Studies; Tokyo Institute of Technology - School of Environment and Society; University of Oxford - School of Geography and the Environment

Yong Jun Baek

Stanford Center at the Incheon Global Campus

Soh Young In

Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology (KAIST); Stanford University - School of Engineering

Shigeo Nishikizawa

Tokyo Institute of Technology

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

Corporate sustainability reporting is now a strategically important space that impacts corporate valuations, supply chains, and business models. However, a lack of convergence of regulatory frameworks in Europe and Asia is hampering transparency, reporting quality, comparability, and investment and trade objectives. In our latest sustainability report, we aim to provide a better understanding of the EU’s sustainability reporting landscape and how it compares to four key Asian jurisdictions: Japan, Korea, Thailand, and Singapore.

By comparing ESG reporting frameworks in both the EU and a selection of representative countries in Asia, we hope to provide regulators, business leaders, investors, and other interested stakeholders with a broader understanding of the obstacles and opportunities of the various sustainability reporting approaches.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Sustainability, ESG, ESG disclosure, EU, Asia, taxonomy, corporate governance

JEL Classification: C80, G3, G24, Q01, Q2, Q3, Q4, Q50, Q54, Q55, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Schumacher, Kim and Baek, Yong Jun and In, Soh Young and Nishikizawa, Shigeo, Sustainability reporting in Asia: Are the EU’s initiatives the benchmark for ESG disclosure in the region? (October 10, 2022). Tech Report, Mazars Japan: Tokyo, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4244335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
672
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,505
RANK
89,153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies