Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Washing or Credible Communication? An Analysis of Corporate Disclosures of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in 10-K Filings

55 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2022 Last revised: 24 Feb 2024

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

Starting in 2020, the SEC requires firms to disclose human capital information material to their operations in their annual filings. Many firms discuss their commitment to employee-level diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in their human capital disclosures, representing the first time that firms disclose DEI-related information at the employee level in regulatory annual filings. We examine whether these disclosures reflect credible communication about a firm’s commitment to DEI or merely reflect social washing. We find that these firm-provided DEI disclosures are associated with higher employee ratings on DEI. Consistent with the positive economic implications of committing to DEI, the DEI disclosures are also associated with higher employee productivity. In additional analysis, we find that the market responds positively to disclosures of DEI commitment for firms less likely to be social washing. Our findings provide novel evidence on the credibility and the informativeness of the new DEI disclosures, suggesting that firms, on average, credibly communicate their commitment to DEI in the 10-K human capital disclosures.

Keywords: Human Capital Disclosure; Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion; Social Washing; Employee Productivity; Employee DEI Ratings

JEL Classification: G14, M14, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Zhang, Yuan, Social Washing or Credible Communication? An Analysis of Corporate Disclosures of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in 10-K Filings (February 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244954 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4244954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
Account. Rev , volume 80 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
U S Aon
companies focus on four areas of human capital management disclosure Posted: 2021
S Arif , Y S J Yoon , H H Zhang
The Information Content of Mandatory Human Capital Disclosures-Initial Evidence Posted: 2022
P A Argenti
When Should Your Company Speak Up About a Social Issue?
Harv. Bus. Rev Posted: 2020
Load more
5 Citations
Samuel A. Allen , Audrey J. Murrell , Frits K. Pil
DEI backlash – Implications for organizational DEI alignment and employee belongingness
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: An International Journal , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
우희연 선 , 광진 이 , 우종 이
한국기업의 성별 다양성 워싱*
Korean Accounting Journal , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 35 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Giorgio Locatelli , Ilaria Zagaria , Giacomo Dei , Tristano Sainati
Social Washing in Architecture, Engineering, and Construction Firms
Journal of Management in Engineering , volume 41 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Wei Cai , Yue Chen , Shiva Rajgopal , Li Azinovic-Yang
Diversity targets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 2157 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,602
RANK
30,285
5 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies