Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure and Takeovers: Evidence from Private Banks

52 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2022 Last revised: 26 Oct 2023

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Jing Wen

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: October 26, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the role of mandatory financial disclosure in the takeover market for privately held U.S. banks. Public financial information plays a critical role in the takeover market as acquirers rely on it to identify potential targets and conduct preliminary due diligence. Using a difference-in-differences research design around a regulatory disclosure mandate that changed the frequency and granularity of financial disclosure for certain banks, we find that banks with more frequent and richer disclosure are more likely to be targeted in M&A transactions than other banks. Furthermore, the impact of the disclosure mandate is less severe for banks that experience a less significant loss of publicly available information. Acquirers earn higher bid-announcement returns when targeting banks with richer and more frequent disclosures. Overall, we shed light on the critical role of mandatory financial reporting in the takeover market.

Keywords: Mandatory Disclosure, Mergers and Acquisitions, Private Banks, Regulatory Reports, Takeovers

JEL Classification: D83, G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Urooj and Nissim, Doron and Wen, Jing, Mandatory Disclosure and Takeovers: Evidence from Private Banks (October 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4244631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
206,108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies