Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Risk and Deal Completion Likelihood

Posted: 18 Oct 2022

Ibtissem Rouine

Université Lille 2

Date Written: October 11, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the impact of firm-level political risk developed by Hassan et al. (2019) on the likelihood of takeover completion and on deal duration. Using a sample of US deals between 2002 and 2019, we find that the likelihood of takeover completion and deal duration are significantly related to bidder’s the political risk. As firm-level political risk can entail costs or reveal new information, bidders faced with higher political risk are more likely to cancel bids before closing and to delay deal completion. Political shocks can expose acquirers to default risk and make it costly for bidders to raise external funds to undertake mergers and acquisitions (M&As). The present results are robust, after controlling for potential endogeneity concerns.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As), completion likelihood, political risk, deal duration, withdrawn deals.

Suggested Citation:

Rouine, Ibtissem, Political Risk and Deal Completion Likelihood (October 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244816
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies