Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonlinear Impacts of CSR Performance on Firm Risk: New Evidence Using a Panel Smooth Threshold Regression

Finance Research Letters, Volume 47, Part B, June 2022, 102721

Posted: 18 Oct 2022

Ibtissem Rouine

Université Lille 2

Date Written: October 11, 2022

Abstract

As a contribution to the academic debate on the financial, social, and organizational impacts of Corporate Social Commitment (CSC), the present paper investigates the relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility Performance (CSRP), addressed as a proxy and a signal of company’s social and environmental effective commitment, and firm’s total risk. Accordingly, it endorses a robust theoretical framework, hybridizing the stakeholder and the agency perspectives. Based on a large-scale dataset including observations from S&P500 listed companies between 2002 and 2017, the article claims that relationship between CSRP and firm’s total risk is nonlinear and wholly negative. Nevertheless, the empirical evidence shows that the mitigating impact of CSRP on the risk appears as more noticeable and marked beyond a defined score of CSRP, suggesting a “threshold effect” induced both by (collective and organizational) learning and responsible regulations, reshaping operational practices. Technically, the paper adopts a non-linear panel data specification based on the panel switching transition model to compute the transition threshold of CSRP, where CSRP is a transition variable

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Firm risk, Panel Smooth Threshold Regression

JEL Classification: G30, L2, C24

Suggested Citation:

Rouine, Ibtissem, Nonlinear Impacts of CSR Performance on Firm Risk: New Evidence Using a Panel Smooth Threshold Regression (October 11, 2022). Finance Research Letters, Volume 47, Part B, June 2022, 102721, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4244807
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies