Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Takeover Market’s Effect on Managerial Ownership: Evidence From Hostile Takeover Susceptibility

40 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Ploypailin Kijkasiwat

Khon Kaen University, The Faculty of Business Administration and Accountancy

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Ali Uyar

La Rochelle Business School

Date Written: October 12, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Capitalizing on a unique measure of takeover susceptibility principally based on the staggered implementation of state laws, we explore the takeover market’s effect on managerial ownership. The market for corporate control, often known as the takeover market, is an important external governance mechanism, whereas managerial ownership is a vital internal governance instrument. Managerial ownership brings into convergence the interests of shareholders and managers. The originality of our study arises from the usage of state-level anti-takeover legislations as a measure which is beyond the control of firms and plausibly exogenous to firm-specific characteristics.

Design/Methodology: In addition to the standard regression analysis, we also execute a variety of robustness checks to minimize endogeneity, i.e., propensity score matching, entropy balancing, instrumental-variable analysis, Lewbel’s (2012) heteroscedastic identification, and Oster’s (2019) testing for coefficient stability.

Findings: Based on a large sample of U.S. firms, our results show that more hostile takeover threats bring about significantly lower managerial ownership. Our results reinforce the prediction of the substitution hypothesis. The disciplinary function of the takeover market reduces agency conflict to the point where managerial ownership is less necessary as a governance mechanism. Specifically, a rise in takeover susceptibility by one standard deviation diminishes managerial ownership by 7.22%

Originality: Our study is the first to shed light on the impact of the takeover market on managerial ownership using a novel measure mainly based on the staggered adoption of state laws, which are plausibly exogenous to individual firms’ characteristics. Consequently, unlike prior research, our study is more likely to indicate a causal effect, rather than merely a correlation.

Keywords: hostile takeovers, takeover vulnerability, takeover susceptibility, managerial ownership, corporate governance, agency theory

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Kijkasiwat, Ploypailin and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Uyar, Ali, The Takeover Market’s Effect on Managerial Ownership: Evidence From Hostile Takeover Susceptibility (October 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4245852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4245852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies