Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advancement of Cloud-Based Accounting Effectiveness, Decision-Making Quality, and Firm Performance Through Digital Transformation and Digital Leadership
Heliyon

36 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2022 Publication Status: Published

Hung Quang Bui

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Hoa Tran

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Hoai Thanh Tu

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Phong Nguyen Nguyen

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Abstract

This study investigates how cloud-based accounting effectiveness (CBAE) and decision-making quality (DMQ) mediate the impact of digital transformation on organizational performance. In addition, the moderating effects of digital leadership on the relationships between digital transformation and CBAE and CBAE and DMQ were investigated. The proposed model and its hypotheses were evaluated using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) on survey data from 252 large-sized Vietnamese firms. The study’s findings were as follows: (1) digital transformation positively affects CBAE, which affects DMQ and organizational performance; (2) when digital leadership is strong, the effects of digital transformation on CBAE and CBAE on DMQ are amplified. These findings demonstrate how the interaction between digital transformation and digital leadership can contribute to the success of firms in emerging markets that use cloud accounting. In addition, the current study elucidates the mechanism by which digital transformation influences the digitalization of accounting practices and contributes to our understanding of digital transformation research in accounting by introducing digital leadership as a boundary condition.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, Digital Leadership, cloud-based accounting, decision-making quality, Vietnam

Suggested Citation:

Bui, Hung Quang and Tran, Hoa and Tu, Hoai Thanh and Nguyen, Phong Nguyen, Advancement of Cloud-Based Accounting Effectiveness, Decision-Making Quality, and Firm Performance Through Digital Transformation and Digital Leadership. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4246496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4246496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies