Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Credibility of Mandatory Disclosure by Credit Rating Agencies on Managerial Learning from Stock Prices

49 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Seyoung Park

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: July 31, 2022

Abstract

Using the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, we examine the credibility of mandatory disclosure by credit rating agencies (CRAs) on managerial learning from stock prices. We find an increase in investment-price sensitivity for firms affected by the Act. Consistent with managers relying more on stock prices in making investment decisions in the post-CRARA period, the increase is more marked when managers have greater incentives to glean information from prices—when firms are exposed to multiple dimensions of uncertainty, have higher growth options, face steeper competition, have less informed managers, and have higher accounting fraud risk. Future profitability improves, suggesting that managers’ reliance on stock prices improves investment efficiency. Our findings suggest that the greater credibility of CRA mandatory disclosure leads to an increase in investment-price sensitivity by improving the informativeness of stock prices for managers, which facilitates managerial learning from stock prices.

Keywords: Mandatory disclosure; managerial learning; investment-price sensitivity; corporate investment; informed trading; disclosure credibility; credit ratings; credit rating agency; regulation

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G24, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaewoo and Park, Seyoung and Wilson, Ryan J., The Effect of the Credibility of Mandatory Disclosure by Credit Rating Agencies on Managerial Learning from Stock Prices (July 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4246095 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4246095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,098
RANK
339,258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies