Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Sustainability of the Business Model: Firm Governance Using the Sustainable Value Creation Framework and Its Measurements

Governance of Sustainability, Haupt Verlag AG, September 2023, Forthcoming

21 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023

Tomas Casas

University of St. Gallen - SoM: School of Management

Martin Nerlinger

University of St. Gallen - School of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: October 12, 2022

Abstract

The generally accepted definition of sustainability's has a future orientation where "the needs of the present" are satisfied "without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs” (Brundtland, 1987). That sustainability is at the firm level (as in von Carlowitz, 1712) is an increasingly self-evident proposition. Yet leaders aspiring to make their organizations sustainable face a multitude of challenges, and not exactly because of a lack of choice in the CSR and ESG options available to them. Bafflement can easily turn into frustration when inconsistency, the lack of connection to the firm’s business model or poor-quality data become apparent.

On the other hand, progress towards applying sustainability has been considerable over the last decade as exemplified by the ‘big’ global ESG framework and standard-setting organizations. Yet despite the progress made by the copious number of frameworks and measurements, serious issues and blind spots persist. For instance, monopoly positions, subsidies or regulatory privileges are clearly unsustainable and yet rarely captured by existing sustainable frameworks and measurements. This is but one issue—a review of all those identified in the academic and practitioner literature is the paper's first step.

In a second step, this paper proposes requirements for sustainability frameworks and measurements. These include: (i) comprehensive capture of sustainable activities; (ii) comprehensive capture of unsustainable activities; (iii) pricing all the value creation and appropriation of the firm; (iv) measuring business model sustainability in relation to the financial statement; (v) measuring the balance of the business model’s sustainable and unsustainable activities. In the third and final step, the paper discusses two sustainable value creation measurements (VCr/VCp) anchored in a multi-disciplinary body theory while developing specific metrics for their calculation. Once empirically validated, the VCp/VCr measurements might inform managers and investors in their choices, inform public policy and could even be employed to adjust equity valuations and credit ratings.

Keywords: sustainability, value creation, value extraction, redistribution, financial reporting, ESG, CSR, metrics

JEL Classification: G1, G11, G32, G28, G38, O4, O25, Q01, Q05, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Casas, Tomas and Nerlinger, Martin, Assessing the Sustainability of the Business Model: Firm Governance Using the Sustainable Value Creation Framework and Its Measurements (October 12, 2022). Governance of Sustainability, Haupt Verlag AG, September 2023, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4246093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4246093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
K Azizuddin
ESG data quality tops list of investor concerns in 2020 Posted: 2020-12-15
B M Barber , A Morse , A Yasuda
Impact investing
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , issue 1 , p. 162 - 185 Posted: 2021
R Bass , D Hand , K Mccarthy , S Sunderji , N Nova
COM-PASS: The methodology for comparing and assessing impact. Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) Posted: 2021-05-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
166,169
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies