Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Ownership Structures and Sustainable Banking Initiatives: The Moderating Effect of Governance Mechanism

76 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2022

douglas adu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohammad Zoynul Abedin

Teesside University

Mudassar Hasan

Teesside University

Abstract

Bank regulators in the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) region are increasingly focusing on effective bank ownership structures (BOS) as a key corporate governance (CG) mechanism to drive sustainable banking disclosures (SBD). However, it is unclear whether BOS can lead to an enhancement in SBD. Understanding these key associations can help policymakers and banks design sustainable strategies to promote SBD. In this study, we fill this gap by investigating the impact of BOS on SBD and determining the extent to which the broad CG disclosure moderates this relationship. We conduct a dynamic two-step system generalized method of moments model over an extensive dataset. We demonstrate that the relationship between BOS  and SBD is contingent on the quality of the CG mechanisms. Bank ownership by institutions and foreign investors (government) positively (negatively) impacts SBD. Also, there is a negative but insignificant relationship between director ownership and SBD. Finally, the relationship between BOS and SBD is positively moderated by the extent of CG disclosure. This moderating effect improves for banks with quality CG mechanisms. We identify CG disclosure as the possible channel through which BOS and SBD are interlinked. Our findings, call for banks to adopt and implement good governance disclosures to improve SBD.

Keywords: Bank ownership structures, Corporate governance, Sustainable banking initiatives, Environmental policy, Stakeholder engagement

Suggested Citation:

adu, douglas and Abedin, Mohammad Zoynul and Hasan, Mudassar, Bank Ownership Structures and Sustainable Banking Initiatives: The Moderating Effect of Governance Mechanism. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4248304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
504
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies