Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Within Conglomerate Business Structures and Multinational Corporations

18 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022

Oluwatofunmi I Aduloju

University of Lagos

Abdulateef Ibrahim

University of Ilorin, Ilorin

Date Written: October 15, 2022

Abstract

The growth of multinational corporations and conglomerate firms is one of the effects of globalization and the vast expansion of the global economy. The complexity of these company structures has, however, become a major cause of concern for governments around the globe, particularly with regard to tax compliance. These organizations frequently abuse transfer pricing because of their intricate corporate structures in an effort to lower or avoid tax burden. This article investigates the concept of the transfer price by looking at the characteristics of multinational corporations and conglomerate enterprises, as well as the purposes and objectives of a transfer pricing scheme. After establishing that conglomerate corporate structures and multinational companies are elaborately designed to function as a safe haven for the abuse of transfer pricing, it investigates the different negative consequences of transfer pricing abuse throughout these corporate structures.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Transfer Mis-Pricing, Conglomerate, Multinational Corporations

Suggested Citation:

Aduloju, Oluwatofunmi I and Ibrahim, Abdulateef, Transfer Pricing Within Conglomerate Business Structures and Multinational Corporations (October 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4248824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4248824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
801
RANK
337,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies