Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decoupling from China? U.S. Firms’ Partisan Positioning and Supply Chain Strategy

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Nov 2022

Bo Yang

University of Southern California - Management and Organization Department

Jinyuan Song

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Yifan Wei

I.H. Asper School of Business, University of Manitoba

Jing Li

Simon Fraser University

Date Written: September 21, 2022

Abstract

Escalating geopolitical tensions between countries may lead to a country’s adoption of foreign economic policies that promote economic decoupling from the rival country. Our study examines which multinational enterprises (MNEs) tend to embrace their home government’s decoupling policies in their supply chain strategies in the rival country, and why they do so. We adopt a political exchange perspective to suggest that MNEs’ partisan positioning—that captures long-term, relational exchanges between MNEs and a political party—is a key determinant of their embracing of decoupling policies. Using a novel dataset on U.S. MNEs’ supply chains in China and a difference-in-differences design, we find evidence supporting our hypotheses. Specifically, we find that during the Trump administration (where there were calls for economic decoupling from China), U.S. MNEs with Republican-leaning positioning had fewer Chinese suppliers than other MNEs. This relationship was more salient when firms were in industries that involved national security and less so when firms earned a higher share of their revenue from China. Our study informs the international business and corporate political activity literatures by highlighting the role of firms’ domestic partisan positioning in their global strategy in the era of geopolitical rivalry.

Keywords: Geopolitical rivalry, decoupling policy, partisan positioning, supply chain

JEL Classification: M16, M48

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Bo and Song, Jinyuan and Wei, Yifan and Li, Jing, Decoupling from China? U.S. Firms’ Partisan Positioning and Supply Chain Strategy (September 21, 2022). George Mason University School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4248117
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies