Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between CSR-Reporting and Earnings Management and Vice Versa

23 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Theresa Pleye

Independent

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

Due to the increasing importance of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CSRR) for stakeholder management and for policies asking for more transparency, the interaction with earnings management (EM) has become an important topic in research. Although numerous studies have examined the reciprocal relationship between CSRR and EM no clear connection and direction of causality could be identified. To my best knowledge, no literature review focuses especially on the relation between CSRR and EM. Therefore, I conduct a review of 17 studies on the relationship between CSRR and EM and vice versa. I find that the diverse findings are caused by different external factors such as corporate governance, political intervention, and sector-specific factors. Therefore, the isolated examination of CSRR and EM led to inconsistent results in the past, as the motivations of managers to use either CSRR as a measure to increase stakeholder value or to cover opportunistic behavior are highly varied and shaped by the individual context.

JEL Classification: M41, M14, M12

Suggested Citation:

Pleye, Theresa, The Relationship between CSR-Reporting and Earnings Management and Vice Versa (March 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4249074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4249074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
409
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies