Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imitation without Intention: A Qualitative Analysis of Isomorphic Audit Committee Disclosures

54 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 29 Apr 2025

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Karneisha Wolfe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: April 29, 2025

Abstract

Audit committee (AC) oversight is critical for maintaining investors’ confidence in financial reporting as well as other areas of expanded AC responsibility. However, it is unclear to what extent investors can meaningfully evaluate AC oversight quality based on public disclosures. We observe that some companies stay firmly rooted in disclosures that comply with minimal regulatory standards, while others voluntarily expand disclosures to discuss industry-recommended information primarily related to financial reporting and audit oversight. Rarely do we observe companies expanding their disclosures past industry recommendations to provide company-specific context that outlines AC member qualifications, training, and temporal changes in risk oversight. To explore how companies decide on the extent of AC disclosures and how well they address investor needs, we conduct semi-structured interviews with 30 AC members, five disclosure preparers, and 14 members of the investment community. We find the current disclosure process creates a disproportionate focus on standardized language—aligning with coercive and mimetic isomorphism—that fails to provide investors with sufficient information to distinguish AC oversight quality across companies. We further observe that ACs may be willing to expand disclosures to signal their oversight activities if they receive direct investor feedback about the usefulness of such disclosures. However, limited channels for direct investor-to-company feedback, combined with investors’ perception that current disclosures do not provide enough information to engage, often result in investors’ silence. This silence leads companies to incorrectly assume that investors are satisfied with current disclosures. We conclude with suggestions for closing this legitimacy gap, along with examples of potential disclosure enhancements.

Keywords: audit committee, disclosure, proxy statement, isomorphism, legitimacy gap

JEL Classification: G14, G34, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Stein, Sarah E. and Walker, Kimberly and Wolfe, Karneisha, Imitation without Intention: A Qualitative Analysis of Isomorphic Audit Committee Disclosures (April 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4249500 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4249500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
P Archel , J Husillos , C Larrinaga , C Spence
Social disclosure, legitimacy theory and the role of the state
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 1284 - 1307 Posted: 2009
S Ashford , L Cummings
Feedback as an individual resource: Personal strategies of creating information
Organizational Behavior and Human Performance , volume 32 , p. 370 - 398 Posted: 1983
B Ashforth , B Gibbs
The double-edge of legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
M Ashraf , P Choudhary , J Jaggi
Are audit committees overloaded? Evidence from the effect of financial risk management oversight on financial reporting quality
Management Science , volume 70 , issue 12 , p. 8414 - 8447 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
240,980
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies