Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank market power and performance of financial technology firms

39 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2022

Thanos Andrikopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Xeni Dassiou

City University London - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 17, 2022

Abstract

We adopt a novel variation of the traditional structure-conduct-performance modelling approach, looking at between, rather than within, industries to study the impact of changes in the bank market structure on the corporate performance of financial technology (fintech) firms using firm-level data. We use two samples, one with 231 fintech firms and one with 231 non-fintech firms across twenty-four industrialized countries over the ten-year period from 2008 to 2017. We find that changes in bank market power have a positive impact on the performance of fintech companies suggesting that such firms complement rather than compete with banks. On the other hand, within the non-fintech sector, we find that changes in bank market power have no impact on non-fintech firms. Our results are robust to several tests.

Keywords: Financial technology, Bank market power, Competition, Firm performance, Lerner index, Boone index.

JEL Classification: L11, G21, G23. L25.

Suggested Citation:

Andrikopoulos, Athanasios and Dassiou, Xeni, Bank market power and performance of financial technology firms (October 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4250287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,149
RANK
484,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies