Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Earnings) Management of Deposit Growth

59 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Javier Gómez Biscarri

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF); Barcelona Graduate School of Economics (Barcelona GSE)

Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes

SKEMA Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Germán López-Espinosa

School of Economics - University of Navarra and IESE Business School

Date Written: October 17, 2022

Abstract

Previous work has analyzed the disciplinary role of equity and debt markets on banks and how banks use of accounting discretion to try to reduce this discipline. In this study, we put together data for all U.S. private banks to show that deposit growth is an additional motivation for banks to use accounting discretion. Our results also show that the exercising of accounting discretion is effective; in normal times, banks using more discretion obtain 1%-2% higher ex-post quarterly deposit growth rates than banks using less discretion. This difference reaches 2%-5% in periods with high levels of local instability. These figures are economically significant when compared to the 3% sample-wide average quarterly deposit growth rate. Our findings imply that accounting discretion can help control depositor reactions, but may also reduce the effectiveness of automatic market stabilizers in the financial system.

Keywords: earnings management, deposit growth, private banks.

JEL Classification: M43, G21.

Suggested Citation:

Gómez Biscarri, Javier and Lopez-de-Silanes, Florencio and López-Espinosa, Germán, The (Earnings) Management of Deposit Growth (October 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4250189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4250189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
682,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies