Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reaction to Hypothetical Disclosures in Earnings Calls

Indian School of Business WP

36 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Shashwat Alok

Indian School of Business

Nitin Kumar

Indian School of Business

Sudhir Voleti

Indian School of Business

Date Written: October 18, 2022

Abstract

We examine the implications of hypothetical disclosure in conference calls for firms' future financial performance and stock returns. Managers may use hypothetical disclosure in earnings calls to provide valuable forward-looking information regarding the firm's performance. Alternatively, managers may strategically use hypothetical disclosure to obfuscate and hide bad news about current and future financial performance. Applying natural language processing to the corpus of earning call transcripts, we create a firm-level measure that objectively quantifies the extent of hypothetical statements used by firms during the earnings calls. Consistent with obfuscation, we find that greater use of hypothetical statements is associated with a negative market reaction. The market reaction is statistically and economically significant and is half the economic magnitude of the reaction to standardized unexpected earnings surprise. Markets react slowly to such hypothetical disclosures. A greater hypothetical incidence also negatively predicts future returns for up to two months after disclosure, consistent with delayed price reaction. We also find that greater use of hypothetical statements is associated with lower future earnings and sales growth.

Suggested Citation:

Alok, Shashwat and Kumar, Nitin and Voleti, Sudhir, Investor Reaction to Hypothetical Disclosures in Earnings Calls (October 18, 2022). Indian School of Business WP, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4251225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
302,262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies