Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building Trust with Material and Immaterial CSR: Benefits and Consequences

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1911-3846.12838)

AASB Research Centre Working Paper 5

Posted: 19 Oct 2022 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Hien Hoang

UNSW Sydney School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Soon-Yeow Phang

Monash University

Date Written: October 19, 2022

Abstract

We conduct a series of experiments to examine whether the benefits and consequences of building trust through corporate social responsibility (CSR) vary when the company engages in material or immaterial CSR, and the conditions under which these benefits hold. Prior archival research finds that CSR performance can buffer companies against negative stock reactions caused by subsequent adverse events, such as financial restatements. However, theory suggests that there are boundary conditions for this buffering effect through the multiple dimensions of trust violations. Experiment 1 predicts and finds that positive performance in material CSR enhances competence trust, while positive performance in immaterial CSR enhances integrity trust in the company. Experiment 2 predicts and finds that positive material CSR performance alleviates investors’ negative reactions to an error restatement, but this effect does not occur for a fraud restatement. In contrast, positive immaterial CSR performance results in greater negative reactions to a fraud restatement, but this effect does not occur for an error restatement. These effects can be explained through the multiple dimensions of trust and trust violation, in accordance with the schematic model of dispositional attribution. Lastly, a supplementary experiment supports the robustness of our results to the baseline of neutral CSR performance. We contribute new understanding of the trust-building effects of engagement in CSR and, more generally, of how CSR issues with different materiality levels buffer against the adverse effects of negative events after the initial trust-building activities.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, material sustainability, restatement, trust

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Hien and Phang, Soon-Yeow, Building Trust with Material and Immaterial CSR: Benefits and Consequences (October 19, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1911-3846.12838), AASB Research Centre Working Paper 5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251971
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies