Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Aversion, Taxes and Capital Structure Adjustments

39 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 11 Dec 2023

Othman Alolah

Imam University - Finance and Investment Department

Jean Helwege

UC Riverside

Raymond Kim

W.A. Franke College of Business, Northern Arizona University

Date Written: September 27, 2023

Abstract

We examine the speed of adjustment to target leverage ratios and its relation to CEO risk aversion. We do not find that risk aversion typically leads over-levered firms to reduce debt faster, except in periods when interest rates are high. In contrast, under-levered firms run by more risk averse Republicans take on more debt quickly when interest rates are low, consistent with a greater focus on reducing taxes when bankruptcy risk is minimal. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 leads to differential effects when adjustments involve buybacks.

Keywords: CEOs, risk aversion, capital structure, speed of adjustment, taxes, Tax Cut and Jobs Act, Republican

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G41

Suggested Citation:

Alolah, Othman and Helwege, Jean and Kim, Raymond, Risk Aversion, Taxes and Capital Structure Adjustments (September 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4251776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Bayat , M Goergen
CEO Political Ideology, Shareholder Primacy and Dividend Policy Posted: 2020
A Belnap , J Hoopes , J Wilde
Who really matters in corporate tax
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 77 Posted: 2024
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military CEOs. Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
B Bennett , Z Wang
Share Repurchases and the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act Working paper Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
375,436
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies