Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chief Financial Officer Age and the Perverse Effect of Equity Incentives on Financial Misreporting

54 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 3 Mar 2025

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: October 18, 2022

Abstract

We find that the perverse effect of equity incentives on financial misreporting is weaker for older chief financial officers (CFOs) than for younger CFOs. We attribute this to differences in risk preferences associated with age. Consistent with our attribution, we find that the difference is stronger when CFOs have greater discretion over accounting choices. Moreover, results from a difference-in-differences analysis using CFO transitions from younger to older CFOs show that hiring older CFOs alleviates the perverse effect of equity incentives on financial misreporting. Overall, our findings demonstrate the importance of attending to executive characteristics in designing executive compensation contracts.

Keywords: Equity incentives, Risk-taking incentives, Financial misreporting, Age

JEL Classification: G41, J16, J33, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Jing and Myers, Linda A. and Schmardebeck, Roy, Chief Financial Officer Age and the Perverse Effect of Equity Incentives on Financial Misreporting (October 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4251683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
Cheng Numblkholders ; Chen , Wang
the number of analysts following the firm Posted: 1996
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
RANK
330,062
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies