Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Multiple Taxation on Growth of Smes in Nigeria

International Journal of Economics and Finance Management; March 2022

Posted: 23 Feb 2023

Odion Augustine

Department of Accountancy, Auchi Polytechnic Auchi, Edo State.

Isah Mohammed

Department of Accountancy, Auchi Polytechnic Auchi, Edo State.

Janet, Emulakia Ogege

Department of Accountancy, Auchi Polytechnic Auchi, Edo State.

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

This study focused on the effect of multiple taxations on the growth of SMEs in Nigeria. Guided by three research questions and hypotheses, a descriptive survey design was used. The population of the study consisted of 3144 registered SMEs in South Eastern Nigeria while 336 registered SMEs were
sampled as determined using a simple random sampling method. Primary data were collected using a structured questionnaire and analysed using simple percentage, Z-test and Pearson Product Moment correlation with the aid of the Statistical Package for Social science. The findings reveal Multiple taxations has a significant negative effect on earnings and investment decisions of small and medium scale enterprise and that there is a significant relationship between excess tax charges and the survival of small and medium scale enterprise. The researcher concluded that multiple taxations have a significant negative effect on the growth of small and medium scale enterprises. The researcher recommends among others that Tax regulations governing SMEs should be simplified to make compliance easier for them

Keywords: EFFECT, MULTIPLE, TAXATION, GROWTH, SMES.

Suggested Citation:

Augustine, Odion and Mohammed, Isah and Emulakia Ogege, Janet,, Effect of Multiple Taxation on Growth of Smes in Nigeria (March 29, 2022). International Journal of Economics and Finance Management; March 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251373
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies