Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Factor Disclosure Complexity and Litigation Risk: Evidence from Textual Analysis

68 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2022

Ankita Marwaha

Indian School of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2022

Abstract

Risk factor disclosures were mandated as a discussion of risks faced by the firm. However, industry has criticized them as being unclear and uninformative. A major reason cited for this is firms’ defensive approach to risk factor disclosures, which involves discussing all possible risks to shield them from potential shareholder lawsuits. Using Liberal court, an exogenous measure of litigation risk, I examine the direct impact of litigation risk on the complexity of risk factor disclosures. I predict and find that, when firms anticipate a higher risk of shareholder litigation, their risk factor disclosure language shows more complexity, an effect which is stronger for bad news firms. In further tests, I find that this complexity is associated with greater information asymmetry, thus closing the link between complex risk factor disclosures and informativeness. Overall, my results are consistent with the argument that firms use risk factor disclosures to seek safe harbor from litigation and in the process, make the language complex and less informative.

Keywords: risk disclosure, textual analysis, litigation risk, language complexity

JEL Classification: G38, M4

Suggested Citation:

Marwaha, Ankita, Risk Factor Disclosure Complexity and Litigation Risk: Evidence from Textual Analysis (October 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4253811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4253811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
386,825
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies