Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2022-03-011

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2022-11

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Isil Erel

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yeejin Jang

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Banking and Finance

Michael S. Weisbach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 20, 2022

Abstract

One of the most consequential events in any firm’s lifetime is a major acquisition. Because of their importance, mergers and acquisitions (M&As) have been an enormous area of research. However, the vast majority of this research and survey papers summarizing this research have focused on domestic deals. Cross-border ones, however, constitute about 30% of the total number and 37% of the total volume of M&As around the world since the early 1990s. We survey the literature on cross-border M&As, focusing on international factors that can lead firms to acquire a firm in another country. Such factors include differences in economic development, laws, institutions, culture, labor rights, protection of intellectual property, taxes, and corporate governance.

Keywords: cross-border mergers and acquisitions, international corporate finance, corporate governance

JEL Classification: F00, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Erel, Isil and Jang, Yeejin and Weisbach, Michael S., Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions (October 20, 2022). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2022-03-011, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2022-11, UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4253979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4253979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
722
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,831
RANK
75,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies