Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Performance Evaluation with Business Group Affiliation as a Source of Common Risk

46 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Seung Hun Han

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) - Department of Management Science

Yoon K. Choi

University of Central Florida - College of Business Administration - Department of Finance

YONG HYUN KWON

Changwon National University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines relative performance evaluation (RPE) for the compensation of CEOs of business groups called “chaebols” in Korea. We find strong evidence of RPE when peers are other member firms in the same business group, particularly when a firm has an established compensation or is run by professional CEOs. We argue that the affiliation of business groups can be a significant common shock affecting the performance of firms in the group such that the aggregate peer performance can be used in RPE to filter the common risk out of CEO compensation for more efficient CEO incentive contracts.

Keywords: Compensation, Relative performance evaluation, Business Group Affiliation, Compensation committee

Suggested Citation:

Han, Seung Hun and Choi, Yoon K. and KWON, YONG HYUN, Relative Performance Evaluation with Business Group Affiliation as a Source of Common Risk. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4253745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4253745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies