Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Prediction for Cement Industry in India Using Altman Z Score Model

Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting; Volume 22, Issue 24, Page 77-85, December 2022; ISSN: 2456-639X

9 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 20 Dec 2024

Nagendra Marisetty

REVA Business School (RBS), REVA University

Date Written: October 19, 2022

Abstract

This study is to throw a light on the financial performance of selected companies. It is based on Altman’s Z score model particularly for investigation of financial soundness. It shows that most of the companies are not with good financial health. To improve the business performance of industry, financial soundness of the companies should be maintained appropriately. Moreover, to improve the financial performance technological & managerial up- gradation is required. The general purpose of the study was to use Altman's Z-score model in predicting corporate failure of financially distressed companies. So, in this study we are considering selected ten cement companies for the period of five years, and analyzing their bankruptcy prediction. By using Altman’s formula, we are calculating various factors that affect the company’s financial health.

Keywords: Altman’s Z- Score, Bankruptcy, Cement Industry, Financial ratios and India.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Nimbalkar, Pramod and Marisetty, Nagendra, Bankruptcy Prediction for Cement Industry in India Using Altman Z Score Model (October 19, 2022). Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting; Volume 22, Issue 24, Page 77-85, December 2022; ISSN: 2456-639X, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4253357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P Fitz
A Comparison of Ratios of Successful Industrial Enterprises with Those of Failed Firms Posted: 1932-12
Ramakrishana Sharma
Industrial Development of Andhra Pradesh Posted: 1982
Rekha Pai , G A Annapoorani , R , Vijayalakshmi Pai , G A
A principle component analysis-multiple discriminant analysis model for reduction of corporate failure in India
Finance India , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1413 - 1428 Posted: 2006
M Kannadhasan
Measuring Financial Health of A Public Limited company using Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
439,204
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Materials Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies