Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Investors Speak, Do Firms Listen? The Role of Investors’ Dividend-related Complaints from Online Earnings Communication Conferences

Abacus 59.1 (2023): 32-75.

52 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022 Last revised: 9 Jan 2025

Le Lin

Capital University of Economics and Business

Ke LIAO

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC) - School of Economics and Management

Deren Xie

Tsinghua University

Date Written: February 22, 2022

Abstract

We study whether investor voice affects firm policy. Using a novel dataset of the transcripts of online earnings communication conferences (OECC) of Chinese listed firms during 2006 and 2015, we show that firms do respond to investor complaints about dividend policy with increased future dividends. We find that the number of dividend-related questions raised by investors, the number of complaints (questions with negative attitudes), firm executive responsiveness and CEO attendance in the OECC are positively associated with future dividend payouts. Moreover, the positive relations are concentrated in firms facing greater pressure from peers, the market and the regulator. Our additional analysis shows that the increase of payouts in response to investors’ voice is not at the expense of cutting value-increasing investment. Overall, our results suggest that the online interactive platform empowers shareholders’ voice and helps them to conduct successful dialogues with firm managers in a cost-effective way.

Keywords: Online communication, Shareholder voice, Shareholder activism, Dividend policy, Textual analysis

JEL Classification: G35, G39, K22

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Le and LIAO, Ke and Xie, Deren, When Investors Speak, Do Firms Listen? The Role of Investors’ Dividend-related Complaints from Online Earnings Communication Conferences (February 22, 2022). Abacus 59.1 (2023): 32-75., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
644,694
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies