Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Communication and Payout Policy: A Field Experiment

Review of Finance, Forthcoming

96 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2022 Last revised: 16 Aug 2025

Xiaoqiao Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Xiaofeng Zhao

Lingnan University

Date Written: October 23, 2022

Abstract

We conduct a field experiment to examine whether brief, unsolicited messages can influence corporate dividend policies. Messages highlighting investor concerns rooted in four dividend theories were sent to publicly listed firms. We find that messages framed around agency concerns significantly increase dividend payouts among past payers, particularly those with weaker governance. This effect is robust across alternative specifications and validated by a post-experiment survey. In contrast, messages based on bird-in-hand, signaling, or tax-clientele theories have no significant impact. Our findings suggest that dividend policy is more malleable than traditionally assumed and highlight the role of managerial perceptions in financial decision-making.

Keywords: Dividend policy, Field experiment, Agency costs, Investor Relations

JEL Classification: C93, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xiaoqiao and Xie, Jing and Zhang, Bohui and Zhao, Xiaofeng,
Investor Communication and Payout Policy: A Field Experiment
(October 23, 2022). Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4255987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A B Atkins , E A Dyl
Transactions costs and holding periods for common stocks
The Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 309 - 325 Posted: 1997
A Atmaz , S Basak
Stock market and no-dividend stocks
The Journal of Finance , volume 77 , p. 545 - 599 Posted: 2022
K.-H Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Board reforms and dividend policy: International evidence
Journal of Financial Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 1296 - 1320 Posted: 2021
M Baker , J Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Load more
2 Citations
Zeyu Sun , Xiaohui Li , Jing Xie , C.S. Cheng
How does dividend payout affect corporate social responsibility? A channel analysis
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 68 , p. 101165 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Richard Arhinful , Leviticus Mensah , Halkawt Ismail Mohammed Amin , Hayford Asare Obeng
The influence of cost of debt, cost of equity and weighted average cost of capital on dividend policy decision: evidence from non-financial companies listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
446
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
148,652
2 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies