Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Social Media in the Corporate Bond Market: Evidence from Twitter

Management Science

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4255991

59 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Lucile Faurel

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Partha S. Mohanram

Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 23, 2022

Abstract

Prior studies document the role social media information plays in the stock market as well as the important dissimilarities between the bond and stock markets. Bridging these two literatures, we examine the role of social media information in the corporate bond market. Analyzing a broad sample of messages by Twitter individual users, posted just prior to earnings announcements, containing bond, credit risk, and fundamental information, we find that aggregate Twitter opinion (OPI) predicts upcoming announcement bond returns and changes in CDS spreads, and is associated with future changes in bond yield spreads and credit ratings, thereby providing economically important information to the bond market. This interpretation is bolstered by results from a variety of cross-sectional analyses. Finally, we document an association between OPI and future changes in default risk, which casts light on the nature of the Twitter information underlying our findings. Overall, our findings demonstrate that Twitter appears to disseminate potentially economically important information to even the presumably sophisticated bond and CDS investors, as well as information intermediaries.

Keywords: Twitter, social media, credit risk, default risk, bankruptcy risk, earnings, CDS, bond yield, bond returns

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Faurel, Lucile and Mohanram, Partha S., The Role of Social Media in the Corporate Bond Market: Evidence from Twitter (October 23, 2022). Management Science, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4255991, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
42,583
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies