Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Firms Deliver on the Jobs They Promise in Return for State Aid?

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022 Last revised: 18 Aug 2023

Qingkai Dong

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Aneesh Raghunandan

Yale School of Management

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

US state governments frequently provide firms with targeted subsidies. In exchange, recipient firms promise to create or retain a certain number of jobs in the subsidizing state. In this paper, using novel hand-collected data, we address three questions: (i) the extent to which firms meet job creation targets promised in the application process, (ii) the factors that determine which firms meet job creation targets, and (iii) the benefits to firms from meeting promised job targets. We find that 63% of subsidies awarded to publicly traded U.S. firms between 2004 and 2015 meet their ex-ante promised job creation targets. Firms with poorer labor practices are less likely to meet job targets, as are politically connected firms that receive subsidies in election years. Conversely, promised job targets are also more likely to be met for subsidies accompanied by government press releases but less likely to be met for subsidies accompanied by firm-level press releases; the latter likely reflects the fact that firms put out press releases for larger subsidies with more ambitious job targets. In terms of consequences, firms that meet job targets are more successful at obtaining subsequent subsidies both in- and out- of subsidizing states. However, while firms’ success in meeting job targets is associated with an uptick in positive media coverage, this does not flow through to ESG ratings, even on scores specific to community impact. Our results should be of interest to both academics and policymakers interested in the design of state-level economic incentive programs.

Keywords: subsidies, political connections, transparency, job creation, labor practices, stakeholders, ESG

JEL Classification: D72, H25, H71, M14

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Qingkai and Raghunandan, Aneesh and Rajgopal, Shivaram, When Do Firms Deliver on the Jobs They Promise in Return for State Aid? (August 15, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4255259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,634
RANK
233,304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies