Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Attack on Share Buybacks

14 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Harry DeAngelo

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business - Finance and Business Economics Department

Date Written: November 11, 2022

Abstract

A misunderstanding of textbook-level finance principles underlies the political attack on share buybacks. Critics advocate increasing the tax on buybacks in the hope of inducing firms to invest more and in ways that benefit workers. This strategy will backfire at growth-stage firms, which will invest less, not more, because a payout-tax increase will reduce the supply of equity infusions. At mature firms that are generating ample free cash flow, the strategy will almost surely not induce managers to adopt the (unattractive-for-shareholders) investments that critics desire because managers always have the option to invest retained cash in financial assets rather than real projects.

Keywords: share buybacks, payout policy, capital infusions, corporate value creation

JEL Classification: G32, G35, G38

Suggested Citation:

DeAngelo, Harry, The Attack on Share Buybacks (November 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4255207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,559
RANK
189,110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies