Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Antecedents and Consequences of Firm-Stakeholder Engagement Process: A Systematic Review of Literature

Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review / Volume 6, Issue 3, 2022

12 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022

Avinash Pratap Singh

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee - Department of Management Studies

Zillur Rahman

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee

Date Written: October 21, 2022

Abstract

The extant business and management literature have primarily viewed stakeholder engagement (SE) as an activity and centred on exploring the methods of firm-stakeholder interactions. Some scholars have studied SE as a process and examined its components (Hoffmann & Lutz, 2015; Lane & Devin, 2018). However, current investigations of the antecedents and consequences of SE processes are fragmented and mainly focused on either company or stakeholder context. In this systematic review, we pursued the vast body of literature on firm-stakeholder engagement and comprehensively examined over 170 research articles to accumulate precursors and outcomes of SE processes. Our work has two unique properties: first, it consolidates the knowledge of the antecedents and consequences of SE processes to generate a holistic view of the firm-stakeholder relationships. Second, it explores the existence of business practices in instrumental and normative dimensions using the concept of ―continuum‖ to provide deeper insights into the SE processes. We used thematic analysis to provide evidence of the growing interest of academics and managers in firm-stakeholder engagement. The findings of this study suggest that shared benefits with a long-term perspective are valuable to both corporation and its stakeholders. In this critical analysis of the SE literature, we also provide implications for researchers and practitioners.

Keywords: Stakeholder Engagement, Systematic Literature Review, Antecedents and Consequences, Firm-Stakeholder Relations

JEL Classification: G34, M48, O16

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Avinash Pratap and Rahman, Zillur, Exploring the Antecedents and Consequences of Firm-Stakeholder Engagement Process: A Systematic Review of Literature (October 21, 2022). Corporate Governance and Sustainability Review / Volume 6, Issue 3, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4255342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
492,934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies