Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Political Responsibility (CPR) and its Impact on Companies’ Financial Performance – The Case of the Georgian Insurance Sector

Institute for Development of Freedom of Information 2012

21 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2022

Giorgi Khishtovani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Erekle Pirveli

Caucasus University

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

The current paper explores Corporate "Political" Responsibility (CPR) by considering the case of Georgia. It also attempts to discuss the impact of CPR on the economic development of the Georgian state by analyzing the Georgian insurance sector in general and the sector's companies’ short-term financial results, in particular. In order to establish a positive or negative influence of the CPR on a company’s performance, an additional theoretical component was introduced to the given research; for the purposes of the given article the theory of politically connected firms has been applied to the research. The outcomes of the study strengthen the validity of the pre-formulated hypothesis; the pace of the growth of the intrinsic value of the industry after CPR project has slackened. Moreover, as a result of CPR activities most of the financial indicators (ROA, Net Income and Financial Leverage) of the companies under discussion have visibly deteriorated. Findings consent to the second hypothesis of the authors as well. Companies with less political connections were forced to carry out major changes in the composition of their shareholders as a result of the company's decision to apply the CPR. From the given evidence, it might be concluded that CPR positively impacts those with the strongest political connections. Once engaged in the CPR project, the company with the strongest political connections turned into a major player of the insurance market as of 2012.

Suggested Citation:

Khishtovani, Giorgi and Pirveli, Erekle, Corporate Political Responsibility (CPR) and its Impact on Companies’ Financial Performance – The Case of the Georgian Insurance Sector (June 1, 2012). Institute for Development of Freedom of Information 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4256513 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4256513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
451
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies