Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Manipulation among Very Small French Firms

42 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023

Husserl Ossiba

Université Paris Nanterre; Université Lille

David Veganzones

University of Lille I - Institute of Business Administration

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

Purpose—This study explores the extent of earnings management (accruals and real activities) used by four profiles of very small French firms. Design/methodology/approach—The study uses a sample of 2,700 firm-year observations of bankrupt firms and 2,700 firm-year observations of non-bankrupt firms from 2012 to 2014 to build four firm profiles: stressed/bankrupt, non-stressed/bankrupt, stressed/non-bankrupt, and non-stressed/non-bankrupt. from 2012 to 2014 to build four firm profiles: stressed/bankrupt, non- stressed/bankrupt, stressed/non-bankrupt, and non-stressed/non-bankrupt. Using these profiles, it analyzes the relationship between firms’ financial situations and the extent and form of their earnings management over a three-year period. Findings—The extent of earnings management varies across profiles.The results show that (1) bankrupt very small businesses manage earnings more extensively than non-bankrupt ones, (2) the magnitude of earnings management varies among very small businesses, (3) stressed/bankrupt very small businesses exhibit lower levels of accrual and real earnings management than others, and (4) non-stressed/bankrupt very small businesses show higher levels of accrual and real earnings management than others. Originality/value—This study sheds light on the earnings management practices of small firms with regard to their financial situations, an area rarely explored by prior literature. This original, complete investigation contributes to the enrichment of relevant literature.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, financial distress, earnings management, real activities; accruals

JEL Classification: G33, M41, M2, C33, C31

Suggested Citation:

Ossiba, Husserl and Veganzones, David, Accounting Manipulation among Very Small French Firms (October 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4256959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4256959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
RANK
848,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies