Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Supply and M&A in the Audit Market

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2022 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Inna Abramova

London Business School

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

Using labor supply shocks from the 150-Hour Rule, I find that a reduction in the labor supply of accountants increases audit firms’ mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and the audit market concentration. These M&A deals connect audit firms serving clients in the same states and lead to greater industry specialization of the merging firms. Although both small and large auditors generally engage in labor supply–driven M&A deals, large audit firms’ engagement in M&A is restricted to markets with a tight supply of accounting labor. Attenuations of the labor supply restrictions tend to limit the heightened M&A activities and mitigate the rise in the audit-market concentration from the 150-Hour Rule. I conclude that labor supply reductions affect the boundaries of audit firms, potentially changing the structure of the entire audit market.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, labor supply, audit firms, accounting firms, accounting labor, 150-hour rule, mobility provision, concentration

JEL Classification: G34, G38, J44, J61

Suggested Citation:

Abramova, Inna, Labor Supply and M&A in the Audit Market (April 17, 2024). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4257017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4257017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Aicpa
The 2011 PCPS Top Talent Study. Attracting and Keeping the Best CPAs Posted: 2011
Aicpa
Advisory Group Formed to Support Development of National Strategy to Address CPA Talent Shortage Posted: 2023-09
Aicpa
Trends. A report on accounting education, the CPA Exam, and public accounting firms' hiring of recent graduates Posted: 2023
A Alimov
Labor market regulations and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 46 , p. 984 - 1009 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
276,216
6 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies