Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between Earnings Management and Model-Based Earnings Forecast Accuracy

43 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2022

Luca Brunke

University of Cologne - Department of Corporate Finance

Tim Vater

University of Cologne - Department of Corporate Finance

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

The aim of this study is to analyze the relationship between earnings management and model-based earnings forecast accuracy. We provide evidence that firms with higher level of earnings management tend to exhibit larger forecast errors, i.e., earnings forecast accuracy for these firms is lower. Further, we show that accounting for the level of earnings management in earnings forecast models increases forecast accuracy, which then translates to more reliable ICC estimates.

Keywords: Earnings Prediction, Earnings Management, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brunke, Luca and Vater, Tim, The Relationship Between Earnings Management and Model-Based Earnings Forecast Accuracy (October 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4257718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4257718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
384,900
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies