Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability, Conservatism, Executive Compensation-Performance, and Information Quality

Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 15 (489), https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm15110489

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

28 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2022

Abbas Ali Daryaei

Imam Khomeini International University

Yasin Fattahi

Imam Khomeini International University

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Saeed Askary

Gulf University for Science and Technology

Mahdad Mollazamani

University of Manitoba

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between accounting comparability, executive compensation, conditional and unconditional conservatism, and accounting information quality. The findings suggest that conditional conservatism and accounting comparability have a positive and significant impact on executive compensation. Moreover, accrual earnings management can strengthen the relationship between accounting comparability and executive compensation, whereas this is not the case with actual earnings management. Unconditional conservatism, however, does not significantly influence executive compensation. In the end, determining the correlation between earnings management and conservatism reveals that executives use conditional conservatism to perform opportunistic behaviours and gain more compensation. In light of the current results, it is expected that the assimilation of standardisation processes and their use in conjunction with existing features will enhance information quality, greater reliability of financial reports, and protect public interests. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm15110489

Keywords: accounting comparability; executive compensation-performance; earnings management; conservatism; accounting information quality; public interests

Suggested Citation:

Daryaei, Abbas Ali and Fattahi, Yasin and Askarany, Davood and Askary, Saeed and Mollazamani, Mahdad, Accounting Comparability, Conservatism, Executive Compensation-Performance, and Information Quality ( 2022). Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 15 (489), https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm15110489, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4258818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
677,550
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies