Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Technologies and Corporate Social Responsibility in China

43 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2022

Qian Li

Shanghai International Studies University

Zhu Rongcheng

Shanghai International Studies University

Yann Truong

Univ. Bourgogne Franche-Comté, Burgundy School of Business-CEREN

Jiatang GUO

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of the diffusion of the Internet on two important CSR practices among Chinese manufacturing firms: Corporate donation and environmental pollution. Based on the data of listed industrial firms operating in manufacturing sectors in China between 2010 and 2018, we run a series of regressions to examine the impact of Internet penetration on the two CSR practices of Chinese firms. We found that the diffusion of the Internet has a positive non-linear impact on donation and pollution. Our findings advance research on the impact of macro-level technologies on firms’ micro-level responses to stakeholder social concerns.

Keywords: Internet, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Donation, Pollution, China

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qian and Rongcheng, Zhu and Truong, Yann and GUO, Jiatang, Information Technologies and Corporate Social Responsibility in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4258908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4258908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies