Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Low Ability Managers and Financial Statement Comparability

38 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2022

Matthew Hinton

University of Hawaii at Manoa - UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether low ability managers employ financial statement comparability (FSC) as a means of disguising poor firm performance. In my analysis, I make use of the earnings-based FSC measure developed by De Franco, Kothari, and Verdi (2011) and the managerial ability measure created by Demerjian, Lev, and McVay (2012). Using a sample of firms and turnover events from 1996 to 2016, my results confirm this research question. Firms with low ability managers have low levels of FSC and low FSC is associated with decreased manager turnover for poor firm performance. In real terms, a decrease of FSC can reduce the likelihood of a manager being dismissed by up to 4.30%. These findings have practical implications for standard setters, boards of directors, and investors. They suggest that standard setters may want to consider ways in which they can increase the level of FSC because a reduction in FSC makes it more difficult to recognize and dismiss poorly performing managers, impairing a key corporate governance mechanism. Further, boards of directors and investors should be wary of firms with a low level of FSC as this may be an attempt to disguise low ability and poor performance.

Keywords: Managerial ability, financial statement comparability, CEO Turnover, Turnover-Performance Sensitivity

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hinton, Matthew, Low Ability Managers and Financial Statement Comparability (October 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4258176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4258176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
441,693
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies