Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Nomological Network Study of Employer Branding with CSR, Motivation, and Intention to Stay

Kumar, V., Jain, S. and Singh, A.K. (2021), "A nomological network study of employer branding with CSR, motivation and intention to stay", Asia-Pacific Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 553-573. https://doi.org/10.1108/APJBA-12-2020-0450

36 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Vibhash Kumar

Jindal Global Business School, O. P. Jindal Global University

Sonal Jain

Department of Commerce, Faculty of Commerce and Business, Delhi School of Economics, University of Delhi

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This study investigates the various factors which lead to the higher employer brand and studies the relationship of employer branding (EBR) with essential aspects of corporate life, namely, corporate social responsibility (CSR), levels of motivation experienced by employees and the intention to stay (ITS).

Design/methodology/approach: The study solicited a research sample from employees working in five sectors, information technology, hospitality, banking and consulting sector (n = 296). The study employed structural equation modeling (SEM) to test the nomological network of EBR.

Findings: The study underpins the sub-constructs of EBR. A direct positive and significant relationship was found between EBR and CSR and motivation fully mediated between EBR and ITS.

Originality/value: This study uniquely contributes to the literature by exploring the mediating role of motivation on EBR and ITS's relationship. The study validates the nomological network of EBR by considering its various organizational aspects and the corresponding intertwined relationships.

Keywords: Employer Branding, Corporate Social Responsibility, Motivation, Intention to Stay, Structural Equation Modelling, Nomological Network

JEL Classification: M30, M39

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Vibhash and Jain, Sonal and Singh, Ajay Kumar, A Nomological Network Study of Employer Branding with CSR, Motivation, and Intention to Stay (October 18, 2021). Kumar, V., Jain, S. and Singh, A.K. (2021), "A nomological network study of employer branding with CSR, motivation and intention to stay", Asia-Pacific Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 553-573. https://doi.org/10.1108/APJBA-12-2020-0450, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4259196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
521
RANK
511,510
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Operations Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies