Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Succession Planning and Market Reactions to CEO Turnover Announcements

19 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2022

Jihun Bae

City University London

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Jaeyoon Yu

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study investigates how capital market investors assess CEO succession planning in the context of CEO turnover events. Conducting empirical tests using a manually collected sample of 676 CEO turnover cases, we find that CEO succession planning mitigates the negative association between CEO performance and market reactions to CEO turnover announcements. Further analyses reveal that our results are driven by firms that have strong corporate governance. Overall, our findings suggest that CEO succession planning disclosure enhances investor confidence in the continuity of firm performance in the event of CEO turnover.

Keywords: CEO turnover, CEO succession planning disclosure, stock market reactions, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Jihun and Joo, Jeong Hwan and Yu, Jaeyoon, CEO Succession Planning and Market Reactions to CEO Turnover Announcements. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
439,204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies