Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Philanthropic Donations and Corporate Financial Performance: A Multiple Mediation Analysis

38 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2022

Weihua Qu

Shanxi University

Shuqing Liu

Shanxi University

Jie Yin

Shanxi University

Pei Liu

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Abstract

Using a sample of Chinese listed companies from 2012 to 2018, this paper examines the relationship between philanthropic donations and corporate financial performance. We adopt financial constraints and competitive advantages as two mediators and employ both the “causal steps” approach and the bootstrap method to test their indirect effects on the relationship between philanthropic donations and corporate financial performance. We find that the positive impact of philanthropic donations on corporate financial performance are partially mediated by reducing the degree of financial constraints and improving a firm’s competitive advantages. Our results are robust after controlling for reverse causality and using alternative measures of mediators.

Keywords: philanthropic donations, corporate financial performance, Financial constraints, competitive advantages, mediation effect

Suggested Citation:

Qu, Weihua and Liu, Shuqing and Yin, Jie and Liu, Pei, Philanthropic Donations and Corporate Financial Performance: A Multiple Mediation Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4259025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
341
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies