Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Nonverbal Communication Tokens in Business Professional Computer Mediated Communications – A Case for Emojis

26 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2022

Kelly Green

University of Louisiana - Lafayette

Laura Guichard Latiolais

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 24, 2022

Abstract

We surveyed over 200 accounting and finance professionals about the use of emojis in various a professional setting. We pose five research questions aimed at understanding accounting and financial professionals’ usage and views on emojis in computer mediated communications (CMCs). Results from our survey indicate that emojis are, used regularly, used often with overwhelming positive tone, and are reported to effectively communicate said tones. However, there is still somehow hesitation from professionals to fully accept these nonverbal tokens which are already in regular use. Post-hoc analysis reveals that an individual’s perception of the usefulness of emojis in CMC is correlated to their perceptions of being better able to convey and understand tone while communicating with others. This research provides contribution to current literature by acting as a barometer of the current use and acceptance of emojis beyond personal, and social media use found in current studies published by utilizing a more defined business demographic for better perspective into professional communications. More importantly this opens discussion for future research to delve into why these tools, while in regular use, are deemed to be unprofessional, and potentially give way to negative perceptions and allow for increased future levels of acceptance to foster better business communications.

Keywords: emoji; computer-mediated-communication; accounting and finance professionals

JEL Classification: m10

Suggested Citation:

Green, Kelly and Guichard Latiolais, Laura, The Role of Nonverbal Communication Tokens in Business Professional Computer Mediated Communications – A Case for Emojis (February 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4259286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
386,825
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies