Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resilience and Cyclicality in Private Equity: Value Creation and Investment Flows in Economic Cycles

54 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Alexander Juergens

Technische Universität München (TUM) - TUM School of Management

Reiner Braun

Technische Universität München (TUM) - TUM School of Management; Center for Entrepreneurial and Financial Studies

Date Written: October 27, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of economic cycles on abnormal value creation of buyouts (BO) and on the investment activity of the corresponding Private Equity (PE) funds. We benchmark a large sample of BO transactions with closely matched public companies from 1986 to 2017. Our results show that BO transactions have created significantly more value overall, but abnormal value creation has disappeared in more recent periods. However, BO transactions are considerably less sensitive to adverse shocks in the real economy than their public counterparts. The adverse impact of a 1% increased exposure to economic distress is between 0.4% and 0.5% lower for BO than for public benchmarks. Using the quarterly cash-flow data of the corresponding PE funds, we find that investment activity of initial fund flows is slightly pro-cyclical, while reinvestment activity is highly countercyclical to the real economy. Our results imply that PE funds act as liquidity providers during economic distress by providing 45% to 49% more capital to their existing portfolio companies than in undistressed periods.

Keywords: Private Equity, Leveraged Buyouts, Institutional Investors, Value Creation, Economic Cycles

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G15, G23, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Jürgens, Alexander and Braun, Reiner, Resilience and Cyclicality in Private Equity: Value Creation and Investment Flows in Economic Cycles (October 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4260530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4260530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,185
RANK
93,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies