Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate-Linked Compensation, Societal Values, and Climate Change Impact: International Evidence

Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12504

46 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2022 Last revised: 27 Apr 2023

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Natasha Burns

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Finance

Kristina Minnick

Bentley University

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: October 27, 2022

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: We examine whether linking executive compensation to climate-related performance is associated with better firm-level climate change impact. We also explore the interaction of culture and climate-linked incentive compensation with climate change impact.

Research Findings/Insights: Using firm-level climate change strategy and carbon emissions to measure climate change impacts, we find that climate-linked compensation is associated with improved climate change strategy. Climate-related incentives for the CEO and other (operational) executives are found to be negatively associated with firm-level carbon emissions, although the relationship is not as strong; however, no such association is found for climate-linked compensation of the board and top-3 executives. Country-level attitudes to whether solutions for environmental issues are considered a joint (society) responsibility versus an individual’s personal responsibility are found to have an effect on the association between climate-linked compensation and climate change impacts. We also find that country-level cultural views enhance the positive association between climate-linked compensation and climate change strategy but not the association with actual firm-level carbon emissions. Further analysis shows that non-US firms drive our study’s findings. Finally, improvement in climate strategy is found to have a positive effect on Tobin’s Q but has no effect on profitability.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Academic research is growing on the role of climate change risk and carbon emissions in corporate decisions. The findings of our study are important given that linking executives’ compensation with climate performance is gaining momentum. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to examine any link between climate-linked compensation and climate change impact.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: While climate-linked compensation is associated with positive changes in climate strategy, its association with firm-level carbon emissions is promising. This is particularly the case when this compensation is offered to executives who are likely to make operational decisions with a direct impact on a firm’s carbon footprint and carbon emissions.

Keywords: Climate-related incentives; Climate change performance; Carbon emissions; International

JEL Classification: G34, G35, M14, M40, Q54, J33

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Burns, Natasha and Minnick, Kristina and Shams, Syed, Climate-Linked Compensation, Societal Values, and Climate Change Impact: International Evidence (October 27, 2022). Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12504, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4260409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
420,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies