Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Systematic Review of the Linkages between Corporate Governance Systems and Procurement Practices in Public Procurement Entities

23 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2022

MAXWELL WAHABU MANPAYA

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Owusu-Manu De-Graft

KNUST

Prof. Bernard Kofi Baiden

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

David Edwards

Birmingham City University

Prof. Ilnaz Ashayeri

Birmingham City University

Abstract

Purpose – Corporate governance and procurement corruption has long been recognized as a social problem, but the subject has received scant academic attention in prevailing literature on the management of procurement in Ghana. A systematic review conducted explores how the relationship between corporate governance and procurement could contribute to the effective management.

Design/methodology/approach – Drawing extensively on existing literature as a secondary data source, this research adopts an interpretivist philosophical stance and inductive reasoning to explore corporate governance and procurement corruption. The approach underpinning this overarching epistemology, adopts a three-step sample selection strategy to identify the range and scope of publications on the phenomena under investigation. Scientific papers were searched manually from Scopus and carefully screened for analysis.

Findings –Analysis suggests that corporate governance and procurement require a degree of coordinated change across governmental departments, such as planning, legal and procurement to implement a robust policy and related support systems. 

Originality/value – Novel insight presented provides an invaluable opportunity to: further expand future research into corporate governance and procurement in Ghana; and consequently, provide the premise upon which to build meaningful empirical analysis such as comparing the extent of corruption practices in various sectors of the Ghanaian economy.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Procurement, Public Procurement, Procurement Management, Procurement Entities

Suggested Citation:

MANPAYA, MAXWELL WAHABU and De-Graft, Owusu-Manu and Baiden, Prof. Bernard Kofi and Edwards, David and Ashayeri, Prof. Ilnaz, A Systematic Review of the Linkages between Corporate Governance Systems and Procurement Practices in Public Procurement Entities. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4260110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4260110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
379,149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies