Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration of CSR Criteria Into Executive Compensation Contracts: A Cross-Country Analysis

Forthcoming, Journal of Management, https://doi.org/10.1177/014920632211102

Posted: 31 Oct 2022

Simone Aresu

Independent

Reggy Hooghiemstra

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Andrea Melis

University of Cagliari

Date Written: October 28, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between the degree of external social and environmental regulatory pressures and firms’ integration of corporate social responsibility (CSR) criteria into executive compensation contracts. Building on the notion that firms operate in settings in which external regulatory pressures and internal corporate governance conditions interact, we investigate how internal corporate governance mechanisms moderate the relationship between external regulatory pressures and adoption of CSR criteria in executive compensation contracts. The analysis of a worldwide, longitudinal sample of 2,328 firms listed in 37 countries during 2003 through 2015 reveals that the degree of regulatory pressure on firms to operate in socially and environmentally sound ways positively influences their adoption of CSR criteria in executive compensation contracts (i.e., conformity effect). Regulatory pressures evoke heterogeneous responses among firms within a country though, depending on their interaction in the corporate governance bundle. Corporate governance mechanisms have moderating effects: a greater degree of board independence strengthens the conformity effect, whereas blockholder ownership weakens it. This study advances understanding of how the corporate governance bundle of external regulatory pressures and internal corporate governance mechanisms affects the adoption of a relatively recent, important corporate governance practice in the boardroom.

Keywords: corporate governance, executive compensation, csr contracting, esg, sustainability

JEL Classification: M1, G34

Suggested Citation:

Aresu, Simone and Hooghiemstra, Reggy and Melis, Andrea, Integration of CSR Criteria Into Executive Compensation Contracts: A Cross-Country Analysis (October 28, 2022). Forthcoming, Journal of Management, https://doi.org/10.1177/014920632211102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4261222
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies