Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling the Time-Series Dynamics Between Aggregate Earnings and GDP

Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2022 Last revised: 17 Jun 2025

Lindsey A. Gallo

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Hengda Jin

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Suhas A. Sridharan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: May 12, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines time-series variation in the relationship between aggregate earnings and GDP (AEG). Using quarterly data from 1979-2019, we document that aggregate earnings are positively associated with future real GDP after 2000 but not before. We further show that this variation does not result from an association between aggregate earnings and the corporate profits component of GDP. Instead, we discover that aggregate special items — not core earnings — drive the post-2000 AEG by conveying information about labor market outcomes. Specifically, aggregate special items relate to future GDP only when they predict wages and worker displacement. Our study contributes to the literature by documenting previously unexplored time variation in the AEG relationship and identifying its source, challenging conventional assumptions about how aggregate accounting measures signal future economic conditions.

Keywords: aggregate earnings, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), special items, corporate profits, wages, labor market, time series

JEL Classification: E00, E01, E52, G17, G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gallo, Lindsey A. and Jin, Hengda and Sridharan, Suhas A.,
Unraveling the Time-Series Dynamics Between Aggregate Earnings and GDP
(May 12, 2025). Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4261461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4261461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Ahmed M Abdalla , Jose M Carabias
From Accounting to Economics: The Role of Aggregate Special Items in Gauging the State of the Economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
David Autor , David Dorn , Lawrence F Katz , Christina Patterson , John Van Reenen
Concentrating on the fall of the labor share
American Economic Review , volume 107 , p. 180 - 185 Posted: 2017
Ryan T Ball , A Lindsey , Eric Gallo , Ghysels
Tilting the evidence: the role of firm-level earnings attributes in the relation between aggregated earnings and gross domestic product
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , p. 570 - 592 Posted: 2019
Mary E Barth , Ken Li , Charles Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
The Accounting Review Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
RANK
333,065
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies