Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Undiversified Shareholder Engagement

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

90 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2022 Last revised: 1 Mar 2023

Felix Nockher

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: October 31, 2022

Abstract

This paper sheds new light on the impact of corporate monitoring by institutional investors. I show that investors with large proportions of their portfolio allocated to a firm, which I term high “portfolio-at-risk” (PAR) institutions, are effective monitors. Textual analysis of more than 200,000 corporate conference calls shows that higher PAR is associated with greater shareholder engagement and smaller institutional investors with high PAR engage as much, if not more, as blockholders with low PAR. Correspondingly, firms owned by high-PAR investors have higher profits and valuations relative to those owned by large, diversified shareholders. Highlighting the importance of high-PAR institutions for corporate monitoring, I document that a reduction in creditor monitoring entails lower profits and valuations only for firms with low-PAR institutional ownership. The results in this paper suggest a revisit of much extant academic and policy work concerning the drivers and implications of institutional shareholder engagement.

Keywords: corporate finance, corporate governance, shareholder monitoring, institutional investors

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G11

Suggested Citation:

Nockher, Felix, The Value of Undiversified Shareholder Engagement (October 31, 2022). Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4262881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4262881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
163,874
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies