Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Making Tomorrow a Better Place’? Carillion as a Window on the Dark Side of Audit in the System of Company Regulation

100 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2022

Andrea Tomo

University of Naples Federico II

Hugh Willmott

City University London - Bayes Business School

Abstract

The focus of this study is upon the UK system of company regulation and corporate governance, with specific reference to auditing and the role of auditors. It examines how, during a Parliamentary inquiry that followed the dramatic and unexpected collapse of Carillion, a major UK company. It shows how members of the Big 4 accounting firms and other participants, including management, regulators and Secretaries of State, justified and defended their actions. Oriented by Glynos and Howarth’s (2007) Logics of Critical Explanation framework, its detailed analysis conjectures that the recurrent theme of the inquiry was not the restoration of confidence or trust, as is typically presumed, but the allocation and avoidance of blame, together with the deflection of attention from the system of company regulation.

Keywords: Corporate collapses, public inquiries, Big 4 firms, Poststructuralist Discourse Theory.

Suggested Citation:

Tomo, Andrea and Willmott, Hugh, ‘Making Tomorrow a Better Place’? Carillion as a Window on the Dark Side of Audit in the System of Company Regulation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4262034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4262034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
130,619
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies