Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management-Employee Alliance and Earnings Opacity

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Nov 2022

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Rong (Irene) Zhong

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: Octomer 31, 2022

Abstract

The rise of stakeholder governance has triggered a wave of legal initiatives to strengthen employee voice in firms. Exploiting staggered employment protection laws (EPLs) across 26 countries, we find that managers facing strong EPLs report more opaque earnings. Exploring the mechanism, we show that EPLs induce manager-employee alliance: by enhancing employees’ power to influence managers’ private benefits, EPLs create an incentive for managers to ally with employees and treat them more favorably, leading to an increase in manager-employee reciprocal benefits. Next, we show that manager-employee alliance drives the increase in opacity following EPLs. Such alliance-induced opacity impedes the ability of institutional shareholders to make timely adjustments to portfolio holdings in response to EPLs. Lastly, we identify several governance mechanisms that help break manager-employee nexus and restore reporting transparency. Overall, our study documents manager-employee alliance as a potential cost of rigid labor laws and an important source of managerial reporting bias.

Keywords: Labor protection; earnings quality; reciprocal benefit; stakeholder governance

JEL Classification: F01, J01, K01, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Khurana, Inder and Zhong, Rong (Irene), Management-Employee Alliance and Earnings Opacity (Octomer 31, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4262831
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies