Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social-Environmental Responsibility Gap and Firm Financial Performance: The Role of Government Environmental Attention

14 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2022

alvin wang

South China Normal University

Abstract

The rise of ESG makes the gap between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental responsibility (CER) get more prominent, and the consequence of the gap remains underexplored. Using data from Chinese listed companies during 2008-2019, this paper examines the effect of CSR-CER gap on corporate financial performance (CFP) from the perspective of institutional theory. We find that the gap exerts a significant undermining effect on the positive relationship between CSR\CER and CFP. Government environmental attention plays an important role in the effect of CSR-CER gap, especially for firms in less marketization areas and without political connection.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, environmental responsibility, gap, financial performance, government environmental attention

Suggested Citation:

wang, alvin, Corporate Social-Environmental Responsibility Gap and Firm Financial Performance: The Role of Government Environmental Attention. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4263917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
273
RANK
889,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies