Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Advantage of Banks: Evidence From Their Private Credit Assessments *

57 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 26 Apr 2024

Gregory Weitzner

McGill University

Mehdi Beyhaghi

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Cooper Howes

Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

In classic theories of financial intermediation, banks mitigate information frictions by monitoring and producing information about borrowers. However, it is difficult to test these theories without access to banks' private information. In this paper, we use supervisory data containing banks' private assessments of their loans' expected losses. We show that changes in expected losses predict firms' future stock returns, bond returns, and earnings surprises, and that banks use this information to allocate credit. Our findings show that banks' information production and monitoring create an information advantage over financial markets, even among publicly traded firms.

Keywords: bank loans, asymmetric information, relationship lending, informed finance

JEL Classification: g21, g14, d82

Suggested Citation:

Weitzner, Gregory and Beyhaghi, Mehdi and Howes, Cooper, The Information Advantage of Banks: Evidence From Their Private Credit Assessments * (November 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4265161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4265161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Jawad M Addoum , Justin R Murfin
Equity price discovery with informed private debt
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , p. 3766 - 3803 Posted: 2020
Manuel Adelino , Ivan Ivanov , Michael Smolyansky
Humans vs machines: Soft and hard information in corporate loan pricing Posted: 2019
Sumit Agarwal , Robert Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
Edward I Altman , Amar Gande , Anthony Saunders
Bank debt versus bond debt: Evidence from secondary market prices
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 42 , p. 755 - 767 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
136,170
2 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies