Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Corporate ESG Performance Affect Bond Credit Spreads: Empirical Evidence from China

24 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2022

Yonghui Lian

Capital University of Economics and Business

Tao Ye

University of International Business and Economics

Yiyang Zhang

The University of Hong Kong

Lin Zhang

Beijing Technology and Business University

Abstract

In recent years, as the concept of sustainable development has grown in popularity, ESG has attracted widespread interest from people of all backgrounds. This paper empirically investigates the impact of corporate ESG performance on bond credit spreads using a sample of 988 bonds issued by 443 A-share listed companies from the first quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2020. Results indicate that bond credit spreads are lower for listed companies with higher ESG performance. Good ESG performance decreases bond credit spreads by decreasing corporate financial risk, enhancing corporate transparency, and decreasing debt agency costs. The effect of ESG performance on bond credit spreads is more pronounced for non-state enterprises, enterprises in poor macroeconomic environments, and enterprises in regions with a higher degree of marketization. This study provides evidence for the positive economic consequences of ESG performance from the perspective of bond financing, with implications for firms to improve ESG performance and bond investors to optimize investment decisions.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate Bond, Credit Spread, China

Suggested Citation:

Lian, Yonghui and Ye, Tao and Zhang, Yiyang and Zhang, Lin, How Does Corporate ESG Performance Affect Bond Credit Spreads: Empirical Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4265558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4265558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
234,984
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies