Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peers' Disclosure of Investment Plans and Market Feedback to Managers

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

62 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 23 Oct 2024

Aurelius Aaron

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Xiaoli Jia

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 30, 2024

Abstract

Capex guidance disclosed by a firm’s peers provides useful information about their peers’ investment plans. In this study, we find a positive association between peers’ capex guidance and managerial learning about investment opportunities from stock prices as captured by the sensitivity of investment to Tobin’s Q, which is consistent with peers’ disclosure of investment plans encouraging investors’ information processing and thereby providing stock price-based feedback to managers. In cross-sectional analyses, we find this relationship is more pronounced when peer guidance is more informative, when managers have a greater incentive to learn from stock prices, and when the market can aggregate more information. We also find that investment corresponding to peer-capex-guidance-affected Tobin’s Q correlates with higher future performance, suggesting that improvement in managerial learning leads to better performance. Overall, our results offer insights into how peers’ disclosure of their investment plans influences information feedback from the market to the focal firm.

Keywords: Investment-q sensitivity, Capex guidance, Managerial learning, Market feedback JEL Classification: G31, M4, M41

JEL Classification: G31, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aaron, Aurelius and Jia, Xiaoli and Ng, Jeffrey, Peers' Disclosure of Investment Plans and Market Feedback to Managers (May 30, 2024). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4265273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4265273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C Aghamolla , R T Thakor
IPO peer effects
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 206 - 226 Posted: 2022
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
J Bae , G C Biddle , C W Park
Managerial learning from analyst feedback to voluntary capex guidance, investment efficiency, and firm performance
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 583 - 607 Posted: 2021
S Baginski , K Rakow
Management earnings forecast disclosure policy and the cost of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
RANK
287,617
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies