Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandated Corporate Social Responsibility Legislation on CSR Disclosures: Unique Evidence From Section 135 of Indian Companies Act, 2013

Published in ICCLJ’s upcoming issue 15.3.

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-52

Posted: 4 Nov 2022

Asit Bhattacharyya

CQ University Australia

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

The study examines the effect that the introduction of mandatory CSR as summarised in section 135 of Indian Companies Act, 2013 has had on the level of social, environmental, and overall CSR disclosure by publicly listed companies operating in environmentally sensitive industries in India. Results show a substantial increase in the number of reporting entities as well as the level of CSR disclosure. The results indicate that the impact of CSR legislation on CSR disclosure varies based on the types (e.g., social, environmental) of disclosures, total disclosure increase in the post period, and most importantly overall the firms mandated to disclose have lower disclosures than the other firms in the post period. Second, the results show a substantial deviation in terms of the items disclosed and strategies embraced for disclosure of only positive information and finally confirm our hypothesis that the total disclosure increase in CSR in post period is highly correlated with the implementation of section 135 of Indian Companies Act in 2013. Our results are mainly significant to regulatory and government authorities that are considering enactment of mandatory CSR activities and disclosure.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Environmental disclosure; Mandatory CSR disclosure; post period

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharyya, Asit, The Impact of Mandated Corporate Social Responsibility Legislation on CSR Disclosures: Unique Evidence From Section 135 of Indian Companies Act, 2013 (November 3, 2022). Published in ICCLJ’s upcoming issue 15.3., University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2022-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4266752
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Oslo Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies