Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility

Annual Review of Financial Economics, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2022 Last revised: 29 Jun 2023

Harrison G. Hong

Columbia University, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Edward P. Shore

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Banking and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 12, 2022

Abstract

Is shareholder interest in corporate social responsibility driven by pecuniary motives (abnormal rates of return) or non-pecuniary ones (willingness to sacrifice returns to address various firm externalities)? To answer this question, we categorize the literature into seven tests: (1) costs of capital, (2) performance of portfolios, (3) ownership by types of institutions, (4) surveys and experiments, (5) managerial motives, (6) shareholder proposals, and (7) firm inclusion in responsibility indices. These tests and the most recent proposals data predominantly indicate that shareholders are driven by non-pecuniary motives. To stimulate further research on welfare implications for global warming, we assess whether estimates of the returns shareholders are willing to sacrifice (or, 'greeniums'), along with the increasing amounts of assets pledged to firms that become sustainable, are consistent with the growth of aggregate investments in the decarbonization sector.

Keywords: Externalities, Responsible Shareholder Mandates, Sustainable Finance, Greeniums, Corporate Decarbonization

JEL Classification: G10, G30

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Harrison G. and Shore, Edward P., Corporate Social Responsibility (November 12, 2022). Annual Review of Financial Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4267476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
Pat Akey , Ian Appel
Posted: 2019-11
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjö Koskinen , Chendi Zhang
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Risk: Theory and Empirical Evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019-10
Rui Albuquerque
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020-11
Hunt Allcott , Sendhil Mullainathan , Dmitry Taubinsky
Energy policy with externalities and internalities
Journal of Public Economics , volume 112 , p. 72 - 88 Posted: 2014-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,059
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,057
RANK
46,317
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies