Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Investing: What Shareholders Do Fund Managers Represent?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4267270

14 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2022

Stephen Haber

Stanford University - Hoover Institution and Political Science

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Amit Seru

Stanford University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

In this Closer Look, we examine individual investor perception of ESG to gauge their concern for environmental and social issues, their view of whether fund managers should use their voting power to influence ESG practices, and their willingness to sacrifice return in the advancement of ESG objectives. We find that investors are not homogenous in their viewpoints and demonstrate significant divergence based on age and wealth, with the most vulnerable investors—those who are older and those with low levels of savings—largely opposed to ESG and unwilling to risk their assets to advance these objectives, in contrast to younger, wealthy investors who are much more supportive and willing to forfeit returns. Significant differences in perception of ESG also exist within and across fund companies. The results suggest that fund managers should consider the various viewpoints of their investor base and potentially split their votes on controversial ESG-related proxy proposals to reflect the divergent interests of beneficial owners.

We ask:
• How do fund managers determine how to vote shares regarding ESG-related proxy proposals?
• How rigorous is the analysis they perform regarding the economic impact of these proposals?
• How do fund managers balance the interests of their investor base when these interests diverge?
• Would split voting improve mutual fund governance by protecting the interest of minority voters—whether that minority is in favor of or opposed to ESG?

Keywords: Corporate governance, ESG, environmental, social, governance, sustainability, socially responsible investing, corporate responsibility, sustainability, ESG ratings, ESG initiatives, individual investors, mutual fund investors, exchange traded funds, willingness to forfeit returns, Millennials, Gener

Suggested Citation:

Haber, Stephen H. and Kepler, John and Larcker, David F. and Seru, Amit and Tayan, Brian, ESG Investing: What Shareholders Do Fund Managers Represent? (November 3, 2022). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4267270, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,199
RANK
87,651
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies