Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automated Credit Scoring: Private Firms’ Response and Economic Consequences

49 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022 Last revised: 17 Nov 2022

Joanne Horton

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Fani Kalogirou

UCP-Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics

Mari Paananen

School of Business, Economics and Law, University of Gothenburg; University of Gothenburg - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how the increasing use of automated model-based credit scores and the inevitable devaluation of private information channels affect private firms’ earnings management choices. Our analysis shows that credit-scoring algorithms may not be as sophisticated as expected since they do not recognise the impact managerial accounting choices have on the reported numbers. Consequently, some firms improve their credit score and raise more debt through the use of accrual management. In particular, our analysis suggests that firms exhibit a pecking order with respect to which accruals they choose to manage. They first opt for non-tax affecting revaluation of non-current assets, and only if this does not result in the desired outcome, do they then manage their tax-affecting working capital accruals upwards. We further find that firms resorting to abnormal revaluations to improve their credit score are able to obtain additional debt but subsequently are unable to serve this new debt and are more likely to end up in bankruptcy.

Keywords: credit scoring, earnings management, revaluation, private firms

JEL Classification: M41, M21

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Joanne and Kalogirou, Fani and Paananen, Mari and Paananen, Mari, Automated Credit Scoring: Private Firms’ Response and Economic Consequences (November 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4267146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
626
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies