Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Asymmetric Information on the Asset’s Price and the Strong Efficient Market Hypothesis

International Journal of Research and Review

8 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022

Massimiliano Di Toro

Swiss Management Centre University (Switzerland), SMC University

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

The research’s hypothesis is that the existence of material private information leads to the asymmetric information problem and partially invalidating the strong efficient market hypothesis theory. According to the researcher, due to the asymmetric information the asset could be not considered “fairly” priced until the private material information has been transferred to the public market and consequently eliminating the asymmetric information and the possibility of extra return respect to the market due to the privileged information.

Keywords: asymmetric information, Strong Efficient Market Hypothesis, 2008 financial crisis, fair price, asset price.

Suggested Citation:

Di Toro, Massimiliano, The Effect of the Asymmetric Information on the Asset’s Price and the Strong Efficient Market Hypothesis (November 3, 2022). International Journal of Research and Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
RANK
622,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies