Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Characteristics and Timeliness of Financial Reporting: Social Enterprises Evidence

Contemporary Economics Vol.16 No.2,pp.211-226,2022

16 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

ataina hudayati

Universitas Islam Indonesia

Yusri Huzaimi Mat Jusoh

Universiti Teknologi MARA Cawangan Sarawak

Wan Nurul Basirah Wan Mohamad Noor

Universiti Teknologi MARA Cawangan Sarawak

Siti Noor Azmawaty Abd Razak

Universiti Teknologi MARA Cawangan Sarawak

Abriyani Puspaningsih

Universitas Islam Indonesia

Farah Aida Ahmad Nadzri

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Accounting Research Institute

Date Written: June 30, 2022

Abstract

There was vast research on the effectiveness of audit committees as part of the mechanisms in safeguarding shareholders’ interest and also ensuring effective financial reporting by companies. However, studies on the efficacy of audit committees as governance tools in a niche area relating to social enterprises namely cooperative societies in Malaysia is still scarce. Hence, this study intends to investigate the association between audit committee attributes namely audit committee expertise and experience, audit committee meeting frequency and audit committee size to the timeliness reporting compliance among Malaysian cooperative societies. Using qualitative research methods, 158 usable questionnaires from 59 cooperative societies were successfully gathered and analysed using SmartPLS 3 Version 3.2.8. The results obtained provided support to the notion that there is a significant positive relationship between the frequency of meetings on the timeliness reporting compliance and a significant positive relationship between audit committee size on the timeliness reporting compliance. However, the notion expecting a significant positive relationship between the expertise of the audit committee on the timeliness reporting compliance proved to be insignificant. Conclusively, the study provides theoretical and practical support to both literature and practitioners on the importance of having optimum audit committee size and high frequency of meeting in ensuring the timeliness compliance of financial reporting of cooperative societies.

Keywords: audit committees characteristics, cooperative societies, financial reporting, timeliness compliance, social enterprises

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

hudayati, ataina and Mat Jusoh, Yusri Huzaimi and Wan Mohamad Noor, Wan Nurul Basirah and Razak, Siti Noor Azmawaty Abd and Puspaningsih, Abriyani and Nadzri, Farah Aida Ahmad, Audit Committee Characteristics and Timeliness of Financial Reporting: Social Enterprises Evidence (June 30, 2022). Contemporary Economics Vol.16 No.2,pp.211-226,2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
RANK
658,366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies