Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of board independence on dividend payouts: A quasi-natural experiment

57 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2022

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Sang Mook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

Motivated by agency theory, we investigate the effect of board independence on dividend policy. We exploit as a quasi-natural experiment the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the associated exchange listing requirement, mandating firms to have a majority of independent directors. Our difference-in-difference estimates show that firms forced to raise board independence are significantly more likely to pay dividends than firms not required to change board independence. Our results are consistent with the notion that stronger board independence forces managers to disgorge more cash to shareholders, thereby reducing what is left for possible expropriation by opportunistic managers. Based on an exogenous regulatory shock, our results are more likely to show a casual effect, rather than merely an association.

Keywords: dividends, board independence, independent directors, corporate governance, payout policy

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Chintrakarn, Pandej and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Lee, Sang Mook, The effect of board independence on dividend payouts: A quasi-natural experiment (November 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4267558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
874
RANK
469,965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies