Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Corporate Litigant Counterparties Sharing a Common Auditor

60 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022 Last revised: 8 Jan 2025

Eric Lohwasser

Colorado State University, Fort Collins

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether sharing an auditor between corporate litigant counterparties influences their public litigation disclosure choices and litigation outcomes. Consistent with risks and incentives unique to common auditors, I find that defendants are more likely to disclose the existence of legal cases and are less likely to provide predictive loss estimates. In contrast to the settings of other studies, where common auditors have been shown to act as information intermediaries and share private information from one client with another, I do not find evidence to support an effect on litigation outcomes. Overall, the results suggest that common auditors play a "qualified" monitoring role for litigant counterparties, balancing their unique risks and incentives of serving both clients, leading to a nuanced influence on litigation disclosure.

Keywords: common auditors, shared auditors, litigation disclosure, interfirm litigation JEL Classifications: M41 M42

Suggested Citation:

Lohwasser, Eric, The Effects of Corporate Litigant Counterparties Sharing a Common Auditor (November 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4267359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
D Aobdia , R C Petacchi
The effect of audit firm internal inspections on auditor effort and financial reporting quality
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
M P Arena
Corporate litigation and debt
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 87 , p. 202 - 215 Posted: 2018
C Armstrong
The incentives of equity-based compensation and wealth Posted: 2007
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
RANK
467,197
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies