Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Research: Where Do We Stand, and Where Do We Go From Here?

Hermanson, D.R., P.J. Hurley, and K.M. Obermire. 2023. Audit committee research: Where do we stand, and where do we go from here? Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 43 (3): 165-185.

64 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2022 Last revised: 29 Oct 2023

Dana R. Hermanson

Kennesaw State University - Department of Accounting

Patrick J. Hurley

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Kara Obermire

Oregon State University

Date Written: September 11, 2023

Abstract

Audit committees (ACs) are a topic of significant research interest, with numerous studies published each year. We synthesize AC findings from articles published between 2010 and 2020 to develop a conceptual framework encompassing AC inputs, processes, and outputs. We then provide new insights related to AC characteristics, AC relationships, the AC environment, and AC oversight processes. We encourage future research addressing under-examined AC characteristics (e.g., diversity, busyness, and tenure); AC relationships, environment, and processes; and outcomes related to internal audit and internal controls. We also encourage researchers to focus on four contemporary AC issues (remote work, new technologies and cybersecurity, ESG and climate, and AC workload), and to embrace diverse research methods and theories. We provide numerous specific research questions to guide future research toward advancing our understanding of ACs and their impact on corporate governance.

Keywords: Audit committee, literature synthesis, corporate governance, board of directors, external audit, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Hermanson, Dana R. and Hurley, Patrick J. and Obermire, Kara, Audit Committee Research: Where Do We Stand, and Where Do We Go From Here? (September 11, 2023). Hermanson, D.R., P.J. Hurley, and K.M. Obermire. 2023. Audit committee research: Where do we stand, and where do we go from here? Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 43 (3): 165-185., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4268741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4268741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
662
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
90,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies