Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and Regulation: Evidence from the Microfinance Industry

In Mersland, R. & Strøm, R. Ø. (2014), (ed), “Microfinance Institutions: Financial and Social Performance", Palgrave Macmillan, Hampshire, UK.

29 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2022 Last revised: 31 Jul 2025

Roy Mersland

University of Agder

Leif Atle Beisland

University of Agder

Trond Randoy

University of Agder - University of Agder, School of Busines and Law, Students; Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study specifically addresses the call for more research on regulation and other corporate governance mechanisms of banks in emerging markets. Thus far, the scarce existing microbank research has focused on regulations and performance. Therefore, in this study, we focus on the impact of banking regulation on microfinance managers' behavior. Specifically, we investigate if the presence of banking regulations affects the earnings quality of microbanks. Our starting premise is that there is a substantial degree of managerial discretion involved in the financial reporting process and the produced earnings quality. Earnings quality metrics measure the relevance and usefulness of the financial reporting, and summarizes the degree to which such discretion is applied in a manner that is (un)favorable to an entity's external stakeholders.

Keywords: Microbank regulation, earning quality, corporate governance mechanisms, emerging markets, managers' behavior

Suggested Citation:

Mersland, Roy and Beisland, Leif Atle and Randoy, Trond, Earnings Quality and Regulation: Evidence from the Microfinance Industry ( 2014). In Mersland, R. & Strøm, R. Ø. (2014), (ed), “Microfinance Institutions: Financial and Social Performance", Palgrave Macmillan, Hampshire, UK., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4268187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Akhter , K J Daly
Finance and poverty: Evidence from fixed effect vector decomposition
Emerging Market Review , volume 10 , p. 191 - 206 Posted: 2009
T Arun
Regulating for development: the case of microfinance
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 45 , p. 346 - 357 Posted: 2005
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision: what works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies