Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Proposed Regulations for Review Assurance in Finland Through Neo-Institutional and Innovation Theory Lenses

48 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2022

Elina Haapamaki

University of Vaasa

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to understand the innovation adoption and institutional dimensions related to a proposed regulation change in Finland. This is accomplished by utilizing the diffusion of innovations theory and examining the comment letters submitted in response to a proposal by the Finnish Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment that small companies could undergo a review instead of a statutory audit. In the EU, the trend has been to relax the regulatory burden on small companies, and the statutory requirement for auditing in small firms has been increasingly identified as an administrative burden. A content analysis of the comment letters is conducted to identify the extent of support for, and the arguments against, the proposed lighter review. In addition, the characteristics of the new assurance product are examined and evaluated. This study contributes to the debate by providing insights into how a particular EU country dealt with the institutional pressures both to reduce the statutory burdens on small and micro companies and to maintain the quality of small firms’ financial information. The paper is, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, the first to examine innovation adoption and the content of comment letters in the context of a lighter review for small companies.

Keywords: review assurance, harmonization, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Haapamaki, Elina, Examining the Proposed Regulations for Review Assurance in Finland Through Neo-Institutional and Innovation Theory Lenses. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4268671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4268671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies