Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Metaphysics of Internal Control

52 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 15 Oct 2024

Graham Gal

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: October 15, 2024

Abstract

One issue that continues to plague researchers in the development of a comprehensive business ontology, concerns the specification of normative business event (sometimes referred to as tasks) models for business processes. The PCAOB’s Auditing Statement 5 indicate two types of review for business event models. First, are the models designed appropriately, and second are they operating as designed. These two types of reviews are the basis for evaluating an organization’s system of internal controls. Thus, a quality internal control system will result not only in an adequate design of the business event models, but will also ensure the proper execution of the business events. The evaluation of internal controls is a separate process then their design and operation, and requires that sufficient information is available to evaluate their design and functioning of the internal control models. Despite this relatively straightforward conceptual foundation for a system of internal controls, to date there are still only descriptions of sufficient results as opposed to necessary conditions for a quality internal control system. These sufficient results are not strictly of internal controls, but instead concern the impact of internal controls on the quality of financial statements created from the corporate information system. This results in the evaluation of internal controls as a subjective review which may not be consistent from one reviewer to the next. The purpose of this paper is to integrate representations of internal controls into the REA Ontology. This includes a set of internal control axioms which are then mapped to integers using Gӧdel numbering.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Gӧdel Numbers, Ontologies, Inferences

Suggested Citation:

Gal, Graham, Metaphysics of Internal Control (October 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4269616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4269616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Data Science, Data Analytics & Informatics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies