Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lead Independent Director, Managerial Risk-Taking and Cost of Debt: Evidence from UK

Owusu, A., Kwabi, F., Owusu-Mensah, R. and Elamer, A. A. (2022). “Lead Independent Director, Managerial Risk-Taking and Cost of Debt: Evidence from UK”, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming (Accepted 3 November 2022).

44 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Frank Kwabi

De Montfort University

Ruth Owusu-Mensah

Coventry University

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

We extend the existing literature on how the adoption of a lead independent director is related to corporate outcomes by documenting that the presence of a lead independent director on the board is significantly and negatively related to managerial risk-taking. The result is more pronounced for firms with a non-independent board chair. In a further analysis, we document that decreased managerial risk-taking leads to a reduction in cost of debt for firms with a lead independent director on the board. Overall, our results suggest that the adoption of a lead independent director is an effective governance mechanism when the board chair is not independent, which supports the motivation of the UK corporate governance code.

Keywords: lead independent director; managerial risk-taking; cost of debt

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews and Kwabi, Frank and Owusu-Mensah, Ruth and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed, Lead Independent Director, Managerial Risk-Taking and Cost of Debt: Evidence from UK (November 3, 2022). Owusu, A., Kwabi, F., Owusu-Mensah, R. and Elamer, A. A. (2022). “Lead Independent Director, Managerial Risk-Taking and Cost of Debt: Evidence from UK”, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming (Accepted 3 November 2022)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4269505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4269505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
434,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies