Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Committees and Performance in Microfinance Institutions: Evidence from Ethiopia

 International Journal of Emerging Markets. Vol. 13(2), pp. 350-370

doi:10.1108/IJoEM-08-2016-0216

50 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2022 Last revised: 17 Aug 2025

Roy Mersland

University of Agder

Neema Mori

University of Agder - Norwegian Centre for Microfinance Research-NOCMIR; University of Dar es Salaam Business School

Muluneh HIDETO DATO

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 2018

Abstract

This paper empirically relates subordinate board structures with improved financial and social performance in microfinance institutions (MFIs). The research question is analyzed using a panel data from 23 microfinance institutions in Ethiopia over a period of 2006— 2011. Random effects panel data estimation is applied to analyze the link between board committees and MFI's performance. In MFIs with larger than average boards, the findings demonstrate significant ties between financial and outreach performance and how their boards are structured. The structure of board committees moderates the relation between board size and financial and outreach performance measures. Importantly, board committee benefits MFIs through better operational self-sufficiency, lower operating expenses, greater outreach to customers, and outreach to poorer customers using average loan size as our proxy. Practitioners within microfinance sector, and those operating in advisory and regulatory roles to the sector could benefit from the argument advanced in the paper in that normative recommendation to restructure boards or establish committees requires reevaluating the board characteristics vis-à-vis the optimal monitoring, controlling, and advising needs of the institution. Prior literature focuses on who sits on boards, how large are the boards, and how independent are they. This paper advances our understanding of the structure of board committees and how this may affect the performance of MFI. This approach provides better representation of director's role and is thereby a good test of board effectiveness.

Keywords: corporate governance, board committees, microfinance, Africa, Ethiopia

Suggested Citation:

Mersland, Roy and Mori, Neema and Mori, Neema and HIDETO DATO, Muluneh, Board Committees and Performance in Microfinance Institutions: Evidence from Ethiopia (February 2018).  International Journal of Emerging Markets. Vol. 13(2), pp. 350-370, doi:10.1108/IJoEM-08-2016-0216, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4269094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
M Apostolov
Governance and enterprise restructuring: the case of Macedonia
International Journal of Emerging Markets , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 156 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
713,531
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies