Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Policy, Liquidity Policy, and Profitability: A Proof from the Agricultural Companies in Indonesia

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022)

9 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

Rosemarie Sutjiati Njotoprajitno

Maranatha Christian University - Management Department of Business Faculty

Peter Peter

Maranatha Christian University - Management Department of Business Faculty

Vicky Hermawan

Maranatha Christian University - Management Department of Business Faculty

Bram Hadianto

Maranatha Christian University - Management Department of Business Faculty

Date Written: November 6, 2022

Abstract

Profits describe managers' performance in front of the company stakeholders, especially shareholders, suppliers, and creditors. Therefore, they must organize the financial resources well by taking exceptional policies. This research aims to know manager behavior to utilize debt and liquidity policies to create profits by examining their effect on profitability in the agricultural companies listed on the Indonesian capital market between 2014 and 2020 as the population and samples. Because of their homogeneous feature and the variables-related data, this study applies the simple random sampling method and the t-test for the coefficients in the regression model to prove each relationship. By Denoting these statistical testing results and their discussion, this study infers a negative relationship between debt policy and profitability. Conversely, the liquidity policy is positively associated with profitability. Therefore, we suggest managers use less debt and excess current assets, significantly cash, to enhance profits.

Keywords: Risk-Averse Managers, Ability of the Company to Result in Profits, Prospective Projects

Suggested Citation:

Njotoprajitno, Rosemarie Sutjiati and Peter, Peter and Hermawan, Vicky and Hadianto, Bram, Debt Policy, Liquidity Policy, and Profitability: A Proof from the Agricultural Companies in Indonesia (November 6, 2022). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4269383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies