Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LGBT Discrimination and Harassment, Firm Value, and Reputation Repair

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 90, 2023

59 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Sabrine Ayed

EMLV Business School

Timothée Waxin

Léonard de Vinci Pôle Universitaire

Date Written: November 6, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes the market reaction to the reported discrimination against or harassment of LGBT stakeholders (i.e., employees and customers) using a unique hand-collected sample consisting of 167 events worldwide. The results show a negative and significant average effect following the announcement of an LGBT misconduct incident, with an around 0.5% abnormal decrease in market value over the event day and the next trading day. The average magnitude of impact is significantly lower after the #MeToo movement, suggesting that investors tend to be less indulgent regarding inappropriate behavior based on sexual orientation. We also find that firms experiencing a large negative magnitude of impact perform concrete corrective actions to repair their tarnished reputation.

Keywords: LGBT, Stakeholders, Firm performance, Reputation repair

JEL Classification: G14, J15, J70, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ayed, Sabrine and Waxin, Timothée, LGBT Discrimination and Harassment, Firm Value, and Reputation Repair (November 6, 2022). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 90, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4269486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4269486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
310,156
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies