Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Become More Toxic after Going Public? Evidence from Hydraulic Fracturing Operators

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

54 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 25 Oct 2024

Wen He

Monash University

Yile (Anson) Jiang

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Jin Zhang

Monash University

Date Written: November 7, 2022

Abstract

How does access to the public equity market affect firms’ environmental externality? We answer this question by examining the use of toxic chemicals by hydraulic fracturing (HF) operators in their drilling and fracturing operations. Using data from 69,070 wells and a difference-in-differences design, we find that after their initial public offerings (IPO), the operators use more toxic chemicals per well, compared with non-IPO operators that drill wells in the same period and the same oil basin. Further analysis suggests that IPO operators either drill longer horizontal tunnels or develop new fracturing liquids that are more toxic, both of which can help increase the productivity of the wells. The impact of IPOs on toxicity is greater for operators issuing more equity and using more proceeds to invest. Finally, we find that the concentration of the toxic chemicals increases in surface water after the HF operators go public. Our results suggest that going public exacerbates the negative externality and environmental concerns.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Environment, Initial public offerings, Externalities, Fracturing, Oil and gas development

JEL Classification: D62, G32, G34, L71, O3, Q50

Suggested Citation:

He, Wen and Jiang, Yile and Zhang, Jin, Do Firms Become More Toxic after Going Public? Evidence from Hydraulic Fracturing Operators (November 7, 2022). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4270835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4270835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial Dependence and Innovation: The Case of Public versus Private Firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
V Aggarwal , D &hsu
Entrepreneurial Exits and Innovation
Management Science , volume 60 , p. 867 - 887 Posted: 2014
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate Investment and Stock Market Listing: A Puzzle? Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
M Bamberger , R Oswald
Impacts of Gas Drilling on Human and Animal Health
New Solutions: A Journal of Environmental and Occupational Health Policy , volume 22 , p. 51 - 77 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
336,212
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies