Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Payments Under the Table: Employer-Employee Collusion in Brazil

102 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 6 Nov 2024

Javier Feinmann

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics

Roberto Hsu Rocha

University of California, Berkeley, College of Letters & Science, Department of Economics

Maximiliano Lauletta

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 7, 2022

Abstract

We study formal workers who receive part of their salary off-the-books, which we refer to as "payments under the table" (PUT). First, we report results from an original representative survey of formal sector workers in Brazil to document novel empirical facts about the scope and economic significance of PUTs. A quarter of formal employees admit to receiving PUTs for about 20% of their wages, with higher-wage workers under-reporting a larger share of their income. Conservative estimates imply that PUTs generate significant revenue losses for the government, totaling at least 4.7% of labor income taxes and 2.3% of social security contributions. Second, guided by a Nash Bargaining framework, we study how employers' and employees' incentives shape collusive PUT. On the employer side, we leverage novel data on PUT-related labor lawsuits matched to employer-employee records to show that employers increase the reported wages of other employees by 1% in response to a PUT-related lawsuit. The mechanisms are consistent with an increase in employers' perception of risk, and the effects are modest relative to a full-compliance benchmark. On the employee side, we study the ceiling in the social security system, which breaks the link between wage reporting and pension benefits. We show bunching evidence revealing that employers collusively adjust PUTs to report employees' wages up to the ceiling. Overall, these findings challenge existing assumptions about the effectiveness of third-party reporting in developing countries and suggest the need for new policy tools to improve the efficiency and fairness of tax systems.

Keywords: Payments Under the Table, Collusion, Tax Evasion, Informality

JEL Classification: H26, O17, J46

Suggested Citation:

Feinmann, Javier and Hsu Rocha, Roberto and Lauletta, Maximiliano, Payments Under the Table: Employer-Employee Collusion in Brazil (November 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4270665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4270665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob
Dividend taxes and income shifting
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 717 Posted: 2016
Facundo Alvaredo , Thomas Breda , Barra Roantree , Emmanuel Saez
Contribution ceilings and the incidence of payroll taxes
De Economist , volume 165 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 140 Posted: 2017
Nikolaos Artavanis , Adair Morse , Tsoutsoura
Measuring income tax evasion using bank credit: Evidence from greece
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 2 , p. 739 - 798 Posted: 2016
Pierre Bachas , Lucie Gadenne , Anders Jensen
Informality, consumption taxes, and redistribution Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,144
RANK
99,960
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies