Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors’ Corporate Site Visits and Aggressive Financial Reporting

48 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022

Xin Cui

Tianjin University

Jing Liao

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Lu Wang

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE); Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: November 8, 2022

Abstract

This study finds that institutional investors’ on-site visits significantly increase financial reporting aggressiveness, proxied by the level of accruals. Our results are robust using alternative measures of aggressive financial reporting, e.g., positive reporting tone and the likelihood of financial restatements. In addition, the effect of on-site visits on aggressive financial reporting is more salient in firms that are more sensitive to the influence of institutional investors, e.g., firms with a less powerful CEO, financially constrained firms, and firms operating in competitive industries. Overall, our study highlights that under a setting of weak minority shareholder protection such as in China, managers are likely to recognize revenue aggressively to please powerful shareholders who paid intensive attention to them. We add to the literature that institutional investors’ attention can function as a mechanism that affects corporate decisions.

Keywords: Institutional investor, corporate site visits, financial disclosure, China

JEL Classification: G23; G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Xin and Liao, Jing and Wang, Lu, Institutional Investors’ Corporate Site Visits and Aggressive Financial Reporting (November 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4270871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4270871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
623
RANK
592,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies