Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory Disclosure Matter for Private Equity Funds?

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-21

66 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 10 Jun 2025

Feng Jiang

University at Buffalo - School of Management

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Yiming Qian

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 10, 2025

Abstract

As private equity (PE) funds’ economic importance increases, the debate intensifies on whether the industry requires more regulation. We study the effects of new disclosures required for PE fund advisers (i.e., general partners, or GPs). Specifically, we find that mandatory disclosure of misconduct generally reduces GPs’ ability to fundraise. Reputation concerns appear to lead both new and existing investors (i.e., limited partners, or LPs) to avoid misconduct GPs: public pension funds, large LPs, and LPs in Democratic states are most averse to GPs that disclose misconduct. We also find some evidence of LPs’ economic concerns: misconduct disclosure is related to GP crash risk. As regulators look to expand PE regulation, our study informs regulators of the various effects of mandatory disclosures on PE funds and the mechanisms underlying those effects.

Keywords: Private Equity, Buyout Funds, Venture Capital, Misconduct, Mandatory Disclosure, Fundraising, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G10, G20, G23, G24

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Feng and Mason, Paul and Qian, Yiming and Utke, Steven, Does Mandatory Disclosure Matter for Private Equity Funds? (June 10, 2025). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 22-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4271808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4271808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J Abraham , M Olbert , F Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry
Journal of Accounting Research forthcoming Posted: 2024
M Anantharaman
Two U.S. pension funds see $52 mln hit from Madoff Posted: 2008-12-15
S Arcot , Z Fluck , J.-M Gaspar , U Hege
Fund managers under pressure: Rationale and determinants of secondary buyouts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , p. 102 - 135 Posted: 2015
V Atanasov , V Ivanov , K Litvak
Does reputation limit opportunistic behavior in the VC industry? Evidence from litigation against VCs
The Journal of Finance , volume 67 , issue 6 , p. 2215 - 2246 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
116,702
8 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies