Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance to CSR Mandate: Heading Which Way?

Gouri Kalagond, 2022, Compliance to CSR Mandate: Heading Which Way? Dickensian Journal

15 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2022

Gouri Kalagond

Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women's University

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

Corporate organisations, being the lawful citizens, have greater responsibility not only towards economic development but also towards social welfare and environmental benefits. With this perspective, Government of India, through Companies Act 2013, brought in the legal CSR mandate on the companies (with specified applicability criteria) to take up projects towards social and environmental welfare activities. Indeed, India is the first country to bring about legislation relating to CSR activities. Such CSR regulations help corporate to acutely change their image from perceived exploiters of commerce to facilitators of sustainable development.

The present study intends to examine the companies’ progress towards CSR compliance since its mandate in the year 2013. The study includes 235 companies, representing 17 sectors, chosen from NSE NIFTY 100, NSE NIFTY Midcap 100 and NSE Nifty Smallcap 100. The study covers period of six years from 2014-15 to 2019-20. To achieve the objectives of the study, 1,387 annual reports, specially CSR reports of the companies are thoroughly content analysed. The study finds that the companies are adhering to the requirements of CSR committee formation. The analyses disclose that, there is progressive movement of CSR spent amount against the prescribed amount since its legal directives in 2013. The reasons for unspent amount, as specified by the companies, are also mentioned. The findings also reveal that, there is disproportionate contribution to the various focus areas which is mainly due to the varying degree of their national priority.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Companies Act 2013, Section 135, Schedule VII, CSR Mandate

Suggested Citation:

Kalagond, Gouri, Compliance to CSR Mandate: Heading Which Way? (July 1, 2022). Gouri Kalagond, 2022, Compliance to CSR Mandate: Heading Which Way? Dickensian Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4271505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
339
RANK
778,745
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies