Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Reputational Sanctions on Culpable Firms: Evidence from China's Stock Markets

(2023) vol 75 International Review of Law & Economics

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-26

36 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2022 Last revised: 3 Jul 2023

(Robin) Hui Huang

Chinese University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law; 华东政法大学(East China University of Political Sicence and Law); University of New South Wales - Faculty of Law

Linhan Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 9, 2022

Abstract

We examine an important yet understudied form of reputational sanction in China, namely public criticisms imposed on culpable firms by the Chinese stock exchanges from 2013 to 2018. We find significantly negative cumulative abnormal returns around the announcement date, and they were affected by several factors, including financing propensity, governance mechanism, and equity nature. However, the market reaction is significantly negative only for firms relying on external financing and non-state enterprises, and importantly, becomes insignificant in cases where the firm had self-exposed misconduct before the official announcement of public criticism. Further, we examine other effects of public criticism, finding that public criticism does not improve firms’ long-term values, nor produce strong deterrence to change their behaviour. Overall, the evidence of the effects of public criticism on culpable firms is mixed, suggesting that reputational sanction is a weak, if not ineffective, instrument of market regulation in China.

Keywords: Reputational sanctions, Public criticism, Corporate governance, Regulatory enforcement, Chinese stock markets

Suggested Citation:

Huang, (Robin) Hui and Zhang, Linhan, The Effects of Reputational Sanctions on Culpable Firms: Evidence from China's Stock Markets (November 9, 2022). (2023) vol 75 International Review of Law & Economics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4272262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4272262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in china
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
J Armour , C Mayer , A Polo
Regulatory sanctions and reputational damage in financial markets
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 52 , p. 1429 - 1448 Posted: 2017
H Berkman , R A Cole , L J Fu
Political connections and minorityshareholder protection: Evidence from securities-market regulation in china
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 45 , p. 1391 - 1417 Posted: 2010
P K Chaney , K L Philipich
Shredded reputation: The cost of audit failure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 1221 - 1245 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
RANK
609,870
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies