Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Target Industry Competition and the Wealth Effects of Mergers and Acquisitions: International Evidence

38 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2022

Tanveer Hussain

University of Minho

Gilberto R. Loureiro

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Abstract

This paper studies how target industry competition affects shareholder gains around mergers and acquisitions. We find that industry competition does not affect the combined (bidder and target) announcement returns; however, when taken separately, the impact is negative for bidder and positive for target shareholders. The results corroborate the overpayment argument of acquiring targets from competitive industries to win other raiders’ bids. Importantly, we document that the lower bidder announcement returns associated with higher industry takeover competition are mitigated when bidders are from countries with better institutional quality, suggesting that country governance can prevent bidder managers from overpaying the targets.

Keywords: Industry takeover competition, mergers and acquisitions, M&A returns, corporate governance.

Suggested Citation:

Hussain, Tanveer and Loureiro, Gilberto R., Target Industry Competition and the Wealth Effects of Mergers and Acquisitions: International Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4272260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies