Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Political Activities and the SEC’s Oversight Role in the IPO Process

Journal of Management Studies (Forthcoming)

64 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Panagiotis Loukopoulos

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Geoffrey Wood

Western University

Date Written: November 9, 2022

Abstract

We study how the regulator (SEC) responds to IPOs that have a higher political profile. We find that IPOs with issuers (intermediaries) that actively pursue political strategies receive more (less) SEC comment letters than IPOs without such actors. Cross-sectional analysis reveals that the IPO’s political environment moderates the relationship between social pressure for more corporate transparency and SEC scrutiny. Additional tests indicate that the political activities of issuers (intermediaries) contribute to a less (more) efficient IPO process, that is, a smoother, faster, and less costly offering. Overall, our findings suggest that politically active intermediaries have stronger incentives to accurately portray the IPO financial reporting environment than politically active issuers because they have greater reputational and political capital at stake; quite simply, the former have more to lose. We draw out the implications for theory, in terms of agency and visibility.

Keywords: Corporate Political Activities, Financial Intermediaries, Information Asymmetry, Initial Public Offerings, SEC Comment Letters, Political Money Contributions

JEL Classification: G14, M13, M41, K22, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Loukopoulos, Georgios and Loukopoulos, Panagiotis and Wood, Geoffrey, Corporate Political Activities and the SEC’s Oversight Role in the IPO Process (November 9, 2022). Journal of Management Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4273324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies