Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From a Shareholder to Stakeholder Orientation: Evidence from the Analyses of Chief Executive Dismissal in Large U.S. Firms

Strategic Management Journal, 43(7), 1233-1257, 2021

49 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022

Shoonchul Shin

Aalborg University

Juyoung Lee

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Pratima (Tima) Bansal

University of Western Ontario - Richard Ivey School of Business

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

The post-Enron era is marked with growing discourse of stakeholders, sustainability, and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Commentators debate whether U.S. corporations have indeed moved towards a stakeholder orientation, given the difficulties in measuring such a shift. We assess this shift by examining corporate governance practices, especially the prevalence of shareholder- and stakeholder-oriented practices in CEO dismissals. Using data on large firms in 1980–2015, we found that, before the 2000s, CEOs were less heavily penalized for poor firm performance when they demonstrated a shareholder orientation by downsizing and refocusing the corporation and more heavily penalized for CSR activity. This trend, however, reversed after the early 2000s. This paper provides evidence of the evolution of U.S. firms’ governance practices from a shareholder towards stakeholder orientation.

Keywords: Shareholders, stakeholders, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Shin, Shoonchul and Lee, Juyoung and Bansal, Pratima, From a Shareholder to Stakeholder Orientation: Evidence from the Analyses of Chief Executive Dismissal in Large U.S. Firms (November 11, 2021). Strategic Management Journal, 43(7), 1233-1257, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4274632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4274632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
237,535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies