Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Concern Opinions, Institutional Trading, and Bond Price Impact

52 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 8 Nov 2023

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Zhongwen Fan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Qiong Wu

Wuhan University

Date Written: November 06, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether institutional investors herd (i.e., trade together) in the corporate bond market in response to auditors’ going concern opinions (GCOs), as well as the effect of any herding behavior on bond prices. We find that institutional investors herd out of corporate bonds after bonds’ issuing firms receive GCOs from their auditors, and that this result is unlikely to be driven by omitted concurrent news. While herding is associated with a price reversal for firms not receiving GCOs, the bond price impact of herding for firms receiving GCOs is permanent, suggesting that GCO-induced herding facilitates price discovery and that herding in response to GCOs is better explained by institutional investors reacting together to fundamental values implied by GCOs. Our results provide novel evidence on the impact of GCOs in the corporate bond market and are consistent with GCOs providing relevant information to institutional bond investors.

Keywords: Auditing, Corporate Bonds, Going Concern Opinions, Herding, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G10, G12, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Fan, Zhongwen and Stice, Derrald and Wu, Qiong, Going Concern Opinions, Institutional Trading, and Bond Price Impact (November 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4274543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4274543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
P Asquith , A S Au , T Covert , P A Pathak
The market for borrowing corporate bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 155 - 182 Posted: 2013
C Avery , P Zemsky
Multidimensional uncertainty and herd behavior in financial markets
American Economic Review , p. 724 - 748 Posted: 1998
A V Banerjee
A simple model of herd behavior
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 797 - 817 Posted: 1992
B Becker , V Ivashina
Reaching for yield in the bond market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 1863 - 1902 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
226,777
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies