Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Under the Hood of ESG Investing

20 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2022

Vincent McGrath

Macquarie Business School

Elizabeth A. Sheedy

Macquarie University Department of Applied Finance; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 13, 2022

Abstract

We conducted a series of 26 interviews with Australian institutional investors in 2021-22, including asset owners, asset managers and advisory firms. Findings:

1. The key driver of the use of ESG information by these institutional investors is its materiality for investment performance. ESG information is particularly relevant for managing portfolio risk.

2. Other drivers of the use of ESG information are regulator and client demand for ESG. Both regulators’ and clients’ agendas go beyond just financial considerations.

3. Research participants use ESG information primarily for engagement with investee companies. That is, these institutional investors tend to be ‘active owners’, focused on changing the practices of companies rather than excluding them from their portfolios. Australia is described as an engagement utopia due to the scale of large super funds and their ability to coordinate their engagement efforts.

4. Institutional investors in our sample are concerned about greenwashing by both firms and fund managers and take extensive action to tackle it. Company engagement is a crucial element in better understanding management practices and culture.

5. The ESG investing practices we observed suggest that for at least some Australian institutional investors, ESG commitments are authentic and go beyond superficial claims. This is heartening for the general public who may be sceptical about ESG investment vehicles.

6. The culture of investee companies is a vital consideration for our institutional investors. Company engagement is the most frequently mentioned method for assessing it, confirming the perceived importance of engagement in the investment process.

Keywords: ESG, institutional investors, active ownership, greenwashing

JEL Classification: G11, G23, Q50

Suggested Citation:

McGrath, Vincent and Sheedy, Elizabeth A., Under the Hood of ESG Investing (November 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4275982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4275982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
403,165
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies