Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do ESG-Linked Loans Enhance the Credibility of ESG Disclosures?

59 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022

Judson Caskey

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Molly Wen-Hsin Chang

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: November 11, 2022

Abstract

We provide evidence that environmental, social, and governance (ESG) loans improve the credibility of firms' ESG disclosures. We develop our predictions using a theoretical model in which companies may withhold ESG information, or disclose it subject to misreporting costs. Higher misreporting costs increase the proportion of firms who report, reduce the extent of cheap talk, and overall increase the informativeness of disclosed. Firms with ESG-linked loans are subject to additional monitoring and liability for misreporting, as misreporting can impact their loan terms. Consistent with ESG-linked loans leading to higher misreporting costs, we find that the ESG disclosures of firms with ESG-linked loans are more forthcoming with bad news, exaggerate less, and garner more media attention.

Keywords: Debt, ESG, ESG-linked loans, Disclosure credibility

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G21, G30, M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Caskey, Judson and Chang, Molly Wen-Hsin, Do ESG-Linked Loans Enhance the Credibility of ESG Disclosures? (November 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4275127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4275127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
744
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,602
RANK
78,417
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies