Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Connectedness and Cybersecurity Governance: Navigating the Trade-Off Between Risk Exposure and Resilience

51 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 23 Apr 2025

Zhuo (June) Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Arun Rai

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Sean Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: May 19, 2023

Abstract

Integrating network theory and the governance perspective, this study examines how executives’ and directors’ social connectedness—defined as ties to breached firms through professional experiences, educational backgrounds, and social affiliations—interacts with governance factors to shape cybersecurity risk mitigation and resilience. Prior research examines networks and governance separately; we show that governance effectiveness depends on how firms leverage or mitigate risks associated with social ties. Using data on breaches from 2005 to 2024, we find that more connected firms experience more breaches. However, strong internal governance (IT expertise, board independence) and external governance (breach notification laws, industry litigation risk) mitigate this risk. Additionally, socially connected firms face less negative market reactions to breaches, and strong internal governance (IT expertise and frequent board meetings) enhances crisis response. Our findings highlight the dual nature of network ties and the strategic role of governance in balancing the benefits and risks of social connectedness.

Keywords: cybersecurity breaches, social networks, cybersecurity governance, corporate governance, network theory, resilience

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Zhuo (June) and Fang, Jing and Rai, Arun and Xu, Sean, Social Connectedness and Cybersecurity Governance: Navigating the Trade-Off Between Risk Exposure and Resilience (May 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4275743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
A S Ahmed , B E Christensen , A J Olson , C G Yust
Déjà vu: The effect of executives and directors with prior banking crisis experience on bank outcomes around the global financial crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
L Argote , P Ingram
Knowledge transfer: A basis for competitive advantage in firms
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 82 , p. 150 - 169 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
627
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies