Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Visits to Corporate Sites and Cost Stickiness

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting

74 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Wenyun Yao

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Hanwen Xu

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Yuling Fan

Dalian Minzu University

Zefeng Xu

McGill University - Faculty of Science

Date Written: August 30, 2020

Abstract

A corporate site visit is an effective way to obtain information on a firm. Most studies focus on the information advantages of corporate site visits, but limited evidence shows the impact of corporate site visits on firm operations. In this paper, we investigate whether investors’ corporate site visits affect cost stickiness. Using data on investor corporate site visits to Chinese listed firms from 2013 to 2018, we find that these visits can inhibit cost stickiness. The finding is robust to robustness tests and controlling for endogeneity, including firm-fixed effects, use of the Heckman selection model, and the instrumental variables method. Further analyses reveal that this inhibition is more pronounced at non-state-owned enterprises, and the results are more significant for cost stickiness in non-labor materials and firms visited by institutional investors. Moreover, we explore the plausible mechanism through which corporate site visits inhibit cost stickiness through the monitoring channel and the learning channel. Our study contributes to academic evidence on the benefit and value of corporate site visits to firm operations, so these visits can be a useful way to build a connection between investors and firms.

Keywords: corporate finance, corporate governance, investors’ corporate site visits, learning effect, monitoring effect

JEL Classification: G34,O16,M41

Suggested Citation:

Yao, Wenyun and Xu, Hanwen and Fan, Yuling and Xu, Zefeng, Investor Visits to Corporate Sites and Cost Stickiness (August 30, 2020). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4277352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies