Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Safety in the Aviation Industry

48 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Pedram Fardnia

Independent

Hamed Khadivar

Department of Finance, Université du Québec à Montréal

Thomas Walker

Concordia University, Quebec

Date Written: November 15, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the impact of corporate governance on airline safety. Using data from seventy countries during the period 1990 to 2016, we observe a negative relationship between indicators of quality of corporate governance and the accident rate of an airline. Specifically, our results suggest that airlines with less qualified and busier directors, as well as airlines with a higher degree of director succession, are subject to more frequent accidents. Alternatively, the longer the tenure of the CEO, the lower the number of accidents. As might be expected, the results also show that airlines based in countries with more stringent legal regulations, stronger law enforcement, and better air transport infrastructure have better safety performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Airline accidents, Aviation safety, Government Policy and Regulation

JEL Classification: G30 G38 G34

Suggested Citation:

Fardnia, Pedram and Khadivar, Hamed and Walker, Thomas, Corporate Governance and Safety in the Aviation Industry (November 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4277654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
237,535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies