Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Suppliers Value Clients’ ESG Profiles? Evidence from Chinese Firms

47 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022

Zhuoyao Xin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zongyi Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cheng Xiang

Chongqing University - School of Economics and Business Admininstration

Abstract

We investigate whether suppliers value their clients’ ESG profiles in China, the largest emerging market featured with low ESG awareness and severe agency problems. We find a robust and negative impact of Chinese firms’ ESG scores on their access to trade credit. The 2SLS regression results based on the instrumental variable indicate that the impact is casual. Additionally, the impact is more pronounced for firms with higher agency costs, greater information asymmetry, and worse financial performance. These results suggest that suppliers in China view clients’ ESG engagement as costly investments caused by agency problems. Finally, we highlight the economic importance of the impact by showing that trade credit access helps Chinese firms decrease debt costs, increase trade credit supply to downstream firms, and promote R&D inputs.

Keywords: ESG, suppliers, trade credit, agency problems, China

Suggested Citation:

Xin, Zhuoyao and Zhang, Zongyi and Xiang, Cheng, Do Suppliers Value Clients’ ESG Profiles? Evidence from Chinese Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
580
RANK
424,948
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies