Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Ownership and the Accrual Anomaly

41 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022 Last revised: 24 Feb 2023

Adam Aoun

EHL Lausanne, HES-SO, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Abstract

Motivated by the unique nature of family firms and the puzzling persistence of the accrual anomaly worldwide, we study the effect of family ownership on the presence and the economic significance of the accrual anomaly. We propose and explore three possible channels linked to family ownership: agency problems, information uncertainty, and barriers to arbitrage. Using a sample of 27,117 observations from 34 capital markets, we find that the negative relation of accruals with future earnings performance and stock returns is more pronounced in family firms than in non-family firms. The economic significance of this finding is highlighted by portfolio-level analysis, which shows that the accrual anomaly is more profitably exploited by family firms with an annual hedge abnormal return of 18.7% versus 3.4% for non-family firms. Our findings are robust to investors sophistication, different measures of family ownership, and the institutional environment.

Keywords: Accrual anomaly, Family ownership, Earnings, Accruals

Suggested Citation:

Aoun, Adam and Doukakis, Leonidas C. and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Family Ownership and the Accrual Anomaly. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4278427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
703
RANK
514,660
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies