Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Public Confession: Mobilization and Reputation Effects of Disclosing Socially Irresponsible Performance

74 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Lambert Zixin Li

Stanford University

Sarah A. Soule

Stanford University

Date Written: November 16, 2022

Abstract

A core assumption in the impression management literature is that organizations voluntarily disclose information about their positive social and environmental activities, policies, and performance in order to improve or maintain their reputation as socially responsible actors and to garner stakeholder support. This assumption is at odds with an emerging and less well understood communication strategy of proactively disclosing socially irresponsible performance, a phenomenon which we call public confession. Combining a national survey of 525 corporate Black Lives Matter statements, a qualitative study of a business school’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion communications, and an experiment on labor and environmental issues, we investigate how audiences evaluate public confession. We examine whether, when, and why public confession mobilizes public support for a social issue and whether, when, and why it improves an organization’s reputation for being socially responsible. We find that public confession mobilizes public support for a social cause and improves an organization’s reputation for being socially responsible when the public believes that socially irresponsible business practices are pervasive. In this case, public confession does not violate expectations, but signals organizational authenticity. Consistent with this mechanism, the benefits of public confession are greater when firms confess something negative they have done (confession of commission), than when they confess something that they have failed to do (confession of omission). Our paper defines a boundary condition for studies of impression management, social movement framing, and signaling, explicates a novel non-market strategy in the context of rising corporate activism, and contributes to research on organizational reputation, impression management, and institutional theory.

Keywords: impression management, reputation, communication, authenticity, decoupling, social movements, corporate social responsibility, non-market strategy, crisis management, institutional theory

JEL Classification: M1, M14

Suggested Citation:

Li, Lambert Zixin and Soule, Sarah A., The Power of Public Confession: Mobilization and Reputation Effects of Disclosing Socially Irresponsible Performance (November 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4278369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4278369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,713
RANK
224,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies