Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG in Corporate Filings: An AI Perspective

57 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Irene Aldridge

AbleMarkets.com; Cornell University; Able Blox

Payton Martin

Cornell University; Westrock Asset Management

Date Written: November 17, 2022

Abstract

Using Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques, we quantitatively examine the mentions of ESG terms in the U.S. corporate filings with the SEC over the 2019-20 period. We find that in our sample of companies, the management tends to focus ESG discussions in corporate filings along three dimensions: 1) diversity, 2) hazardous materials, and 3) greenhouse gasses. However, overall, the companies and their stakeholders approach ESG from the following three “ESG pillars”: 1) a combination of greenhouse gasses, data security and inclusion, 2) a tradeoff between emissions and product quality, and 3) product labeling. These dimensions can be effective ESG ratings aspects for companies.

We further measure the investor appreciation of the corporate ESG communication through a cross-sectional analysis of the ESG discussions on the contemporaneous and subsequent stock returns. Using standard linear regression methodology, we find that the markets are much more responsive to the broad spectrum of ESG pillars, as opposed to the management “party line.” However, when we account for potential correlation of ESG communication dimensions using AI-based techniques, the statistical superiority of the full communication disappears and only the official corporate message carries through to the investors. We find that the strategic ESG messaging in corporate filings matters and significantly impacts corporations’ forward-looking returns.

Keywords: ESG, AI, SVD, Unsupervised Learning, Collinearity, Artificial Intelligence

JEL Classification: C32, C34, C44, C52, C58, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Aldridge, Irene and Martin, Payton, ESG in Corporate Filings: An AI Perspective (November 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4279479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4279479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
RANK
160,721
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies