Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental, Social, Governance & Financial Performance Disclosure for Large Firms: Is This Different for SME Firms?

Gholami, A.; Murray, P.A.; Sands, J. Environmental, Social, Governance & Financial Performance Disclosure for Large Firms: Is This Different for SME Firms? Sustainability 2022, 14, 6019. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14106019

21 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2023 Last revised: 14 Aug 2023

Amir Gholami

Department of Business, Education, Law, and Arts

Peter Murray

University of Southern Queensland

John Sands

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: May 16, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the association between a firm’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and financial performance by examining the extent to which stakeholder and legitimacy theory help explain the effects on explanatory variables used in the study. Moreover, the study makes a novel contribution to existing ESG and performance-based studies by exploring the explanatory effects of ESG and firm performance over ten years. In addition, the study discusses the ESG-performance link of SMEs, thus advancing existing knowledge related to ESG in respect of SME performance. The study uses an extensive Australian sample from Bloomberg’s database from 2007 to 2017, while panel regression analysis is applied to investigate the relationship between a firm’s ESG performance and profitability. The robustness of the results is evaluated after incorporating several robustness checks to address methodological, endogeneity and causality issues related to a firm’s ESG performance disclosure. The empirical findings of this study suggest that improving a firm’s ESG performance is beneficial to all stakeholders of large firms in the long run but not for SME companies. The theoretical model suggests that listed SMEs do not disclose their ESG activities for various reasons, such as a lack of necessary resources. Specifically, the study extends scholarly understanding of existing theory and discusses the significance of the findings for future research.

Keywords: Environmental; social and governance; Firm financial performance; Stakeholder theory; Legitimacy theory

Suggested Citation:

Arian, Adam G. and Gholami, Amir and Murray, Peter and Sands, John, Environmental, Social, Governance & Financial Performance Disclosure for Large Firms: Is This Different for SME Firms? (May 16, 2022). Gholami, A.; Murray, P.A.; Sands, J. Environmental, Social, Governance & Financial Performance Disclosure for Large Firms: Is This Different for SME Firms? Sustainability 2022, 14, 6019. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14106019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4279071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
B K Chae , E O Park
Corporate social responsibility (CSR): A survey of topics and trends using Twitter data and topic modeling
Sustainability , volume 10 Posted: 2018
D Eberle , G Berens , T Li
The impact of interactive corporate social responsibility communication on corporate reputation
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 118 , p. 731 - 746 Posted: 2013
G Heal
Corporate social responsibility: An economic and financial framework. Geneva Pap. Risk Insur.-Issues Pract , volume 30 , p. 387 - 409 Posted: 2005
L Vartiak
CSR reporting of companies on a global scale
Procedia Econ. Financ , volume 39 , p. 176 - 183 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Adam G. Arian , John Sands
Corporate Climate Risk Disclosure: Assessing Materiality and Stakeholder Expectations for Sustainable Value Creation
Arian, A., & Sands, J. S. (2024). Corporate climate risk disclosure: assessing materiality and stakeholder expectations for sustainable value creation. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-04-2023-0236 · 25 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
401,016
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies