Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Risk Pricing in Japan during the COVID-19 Pandemic: CDS Market Liquidity and ESG Management

27 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Kei-Ichiro Inaba

Hitotsubashi University - Hitotsubashi University Business School

Yuji Hatakeyama

Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

To investigate the relationship between major Japanese companies’ environmental (E), social (S), and governance (G) management and default risks from an interdisciplinary perspective, we conduct panel-data analyses on the determinants of credit default swap (CDS) premia from March 2019 to March 2021.  We find that the points of attention changed in the CDS market by sub-sample period, and that the peculiarity of the COVID-19 pandemic after February 2020 led to more attention being paid to leverage, volatility, employee trust, and adverse effects of having excess G.  Over the full sample period, (I) fewer company E- and S-related risks were associated with smaller and larger CDS premia, respectively, (II) managing G-related risks was not associated with CDS premia, and (III) the CDS market did not regard G as being synergistic with E and S management, the last of which is not in line with the three views of ESG management, to which this study refers.  Meanwhile, CDS market liquidity was estimated to be a persistent and impactful driving force behind the companies’ CDS premia over the full sample as well as various sub-sample periods.

Keywords: Credit default swap, ESG, Shareholder view, Stakeholder view, Employee trust

Suggested Citation:

Inaba, Kei-Ichiro and Hatakeyama, Yuji, Credit Risk Pricing in Japan during the COVID-19 Pandemic: CDS Market Liquidity and ESG Management (May 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4279311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4279311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
D Abreu , M Brunnermeier
Bubbles and crashes
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2003
D Abreu , M Brunnermeier
Synchronization risk and delayed arbitrage
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 314 - 360 Posted: 2002
G J Alexander , R A Buchholz
Corporate social responsibility and stock market performance
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
448,944
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies