Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating ESG: Mapping Individual Responses to Conflicting Institutional Logics

52 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2022

John Millar

Durham University Business School

Frank Mueller

Durham University Business School

Chris Carter

University of Edinburgh

Abstract

Previous studies have called for more research into the human dimension of environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing. Drawing on formal interviews and informal conversations with 35 fund managers and investment analysts working in the city of Edinburgh, UK, this study explores how traditional investors have responded to the growth of ESG investing. We derive inductively six different positions which investors adopt: the Idealist, the Jaded Idealist, the Enthusiastic Mediator, the Tempered Mediator, the Moderniser and the Traditionalist. The paper contributes to the ESG investing literature by identifying and discussing these different positions; the main theoretical contribution is the study of micro-level processes as a means of understanding how conflicting institutional logics are accommodated in variegated individual practices.

Keywords: ESG investing, responsible investing, institutional logics, mediators

Suggested Citation:

Millar, John and Mueller, Frank and Carter, Chris, Integrating ESG: Mapping Individual Responses to Conflicting Institutional Logics. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4280324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4280324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
576,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies