Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Senior Managers and Certification Regime Changing Banking for Good?

Hickman, Eleanore. Is the Senior Managers and Certification Regime Changing Banking for Good?. The Modern Law Review. 2022; 00: 1- 23. https://doi-org.bris.idm.oclc.org/10.1111/1468-2230.12752

42 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Eleanore Hickman

University of Bristol

Date Written: November 18, 2022

Abstract

In 2016 the Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SMCR) came into being. It sought to improve banking culture through the attribution of responsibility to individuals and provide clarity on required conduct standards. It marked a shift away from collective responsibility and towards more individual accountability that had been so lacking following the financial crisis of 2007/08. Its scope is expansive, including not just board executives but also senior managers. In this paper, I question whether there are indications the SMCR is achieving its objective of ‘changing banking for good’. I do this by analysing the design of the SMCR and its application in practice as well as the meaning and regulatability of culture. I conclude that though the SMCR could make strides towards better banking culture, its potential is being curtailed by inconsistent messaging and irresolute application.

Keywords: banking ethics, banking culture, corporate governance, financial regulation

JEL Classification: K20, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Hickman, Eleanore, Is the Senior Managers and Certification Regime Changing Banking for Good? (November 18, 2022). Hickman, Eleanore. Is the Senior Managers and Certification Regime Changing Banking for Good?. The Modern Law Review. 2022; 00: 1- 23. https://doi-org.bris.idm.oclc.org/10.1111/1468-2230.12752, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4280583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
753,521
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies