Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retail Investor Interactive Platform Activity and Information Asymmetry Among Investors: Should Regulators be Concerned?

46 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022 Last revised: 6 Aug 2025

Zhenhua Chen

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Wentao Ren

Independent

Pengcheng Zhu

University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Date Written: August 05, 2025

Abstract

To facilitate retail investors’ communication with firms, regulators in China mandate that firms publicly respond to investor postings made on investor interactive platforms (IIPs). We find that although both investor posts and firm replies reduce information asymmetry among investors, the marginal effect of replies is consistently smaller than that of posts, and this disparity has widened over time. To investigate whether poor-quality and untimely firm replies drive this difference, we use machine learning to classify posts as questions or comments and replies as high or low quality. Our results indicate that replies to question posts are more effective than replies to comment posts in reducing information asymmetry, yet they remain less impactful than the original posts. Additionally, high-quality replies to questions lower information asymmetry more than low-quality replies, and timeliness amplifies this effect, particularly in the early years following the launch of IIPs. However, even timely, high-quality replies to investor questions have a marginal effect of less than one-third that of original investor posts in recent periods, suggesting that IIPs primarily reduce awareness and acquisition costs rather than integration costs. Overall, while regulators may seek to improve reply quality and timeliness, our findings suggest that enhancing investor engagement via posting is likely to have a greater impact on reducing information asymmetry.

Keywords: Investor Interactive Platforms, Retail investors, Information Asymmetry, Bid-Ask Spreads, Access to Management, Investor Processing Costs

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhenhua and Mayew, William J. and Ren, Wentao and Zhu, Pengcheng, Retail Investor Interactive Platform Activity and Information Asymmetry Among Investors: Should Regulators be Concerned? (August 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4281898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4281898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting & Economics Posted: 2022
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , J Wertz , C Zhu
Why do individual investors disregard accounting information? The roles of information awareness and acquisition costs
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 84 Posted: 2019
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
E Blankespoor
Understanding investor interaction with firm information: A discussion of Lee and Zhong (2022)
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
RANK
185,154
4 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies