Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and the Performance of Firms Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange

Law and Economy ISSN 2788-7049 OCT. 2022 VOL.1 NO.3 doi:10.56397/LE.2022.10.01

16 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Chris Udoka

University of Calabar (UNICAL) - Department of Banking and Finance

John Ime John

University of Calabar

Akaninyene Billy Orok

University of Calabar- Department of Banking & Finance

Date Written: November 19, 2022

Abstract

This study sought to assess the significance of dividend policy and suggest measures that could enhance its effectiveness on firms’ performance in Nigeria. To achieve the objective, some financial and performance indicators were evaluated. The ex-post facto research design was adopted and the data were collated, analyzed, and tested using descriptive statistics and panel data analysis techniques. Analysis revealed that without the moderating variable (corporate governance index), the dividend payout ratio was statistically insignificant both in the short-run and long-run periods. This implies that without the moderating variable, the relationship between the dividend payout ratio and firm performance is a matter of chance. While, with the moderating effect, the dividend payout ratio became statistically significant in the short run as well as in the long run indicating that the existence of a relationship between dividend payout and firm performance is not caused by chance. Also, without the moderating variable, the dividend per share was statistically insignificant in both the short and long-run periods. The investigation concluded that among the various dividend policy options considered, the dividend payout ratio is the most critical dividend policy measure that determines the performance of a firm both in the short and long-run periods. The study recommended among others that listed firms that are willing to maximize shareholders' wealth and firms value should consistently increase their dividend payout ratio as this signals that the firm is financially healthy.

Keywords: stock repurchase, residual dividend approach, stock split, corporate governance index

JEL Classification: G., G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Udoka, Chris and John, John Ime and Orok, Akaninyene Billy, Dividend Policy and the Performance of Firms Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (November 19, 2022). Law and Economy ISSN 2788-7049 OCT. 2022 VOL.1 NO.3 doi:10.56397/LE.2022.10.01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4281205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
345,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies