Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Leadership for Sustainability in Indian Banking: A Case of HDFC Bank

Tiwari, R., Chauhan, A. S., & Praveen Singh, H. (2022). Role Of Leadership For Sustainability In Indian Banking: A Case Of HDFC Bank. Journal of Positive School Psychology, 6(2s), 67-74.

8 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2022

Rajesh Tiwari

Graphic Era Deemed to be University

Date Written: November 19, 2022

Abstract

A fragmented and inefficient banking has been a challenge for sustainable and inclusive growth in India. The largest democracy in the world needs robust, efficient and technology driven banking to reap the benefits of economies of scale, scope and inclusion. HDFC bank has announced merger with HDFC. The paper examines the impact of leadership on sustainability in Indian banking with reference to HDFC Bank. The approach of leadership towards sustainability is reviewed using published sources about the founding managing Director and HDFC Bank. The impact of merger announcement on stock price is evaluated using daily returns before and after merger announcement. It was found that sustainability has become a part of work culture of HDFC Bank led by the visionary Mr. Aditya Puri. There was a significant decline in the daily returns of stock price of both HDFC Bank and HDFC after merger announcement. The merger has potential to generate sustainable inclusive growth in the long term.

Keywords: Leadership, Sustainability, Indian Banking, HDFC Bank, HDFC, Merger, Synergy

JEL Classification: M10, M14, G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Tiwari, Rajesh and Chauhan, Abhishek Singh and Singh, Praveen and Himanshu, Role of Leadership for Sustainability in Indian Banking: A Case of HDFC Bank (November 19, 2022). Tiwari, R., Chauhan, A. S., & Praveen Singh, H. (2022). Role Of Leadership For Sustainability In Indian Banking: A Case Of HDFC Bank. Journal of Positive School Psychology, 6(2s), 67-74., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4281583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
221,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies