Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expecting Corporate Prosociality

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 978

44 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022 Last revised: 20 May 2023

Hajin Kim

University of Chicago - Law School

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

Teaching people that corporations must exclusively maximize profits can reduce “win-wins”—what is both profitable and good for society. If everyone believes that corporations must maximize profits only, nobody will protest when corporate pursuits of profits harm society—the firms were fulfilling their duty and meeting investor and consumer expectations. But what if people instead believed that corporations should consider their social impacts, even sometimes at the expense of profits? Consumers, employees, and investors might be more willing to object to corporate harms by changing their purchasing, job choice, and investing behaviors or by petitioning corporate leaders for redress. Those objections would change firm incentives. And in response to those tangible incentives, even purely profit-maximizing firms would try to do more good and less harm because doing so would be more profitable.

This paper develops and empirically tests this theory of stakeholder expectations and corporate prosociality. Two preregistered studies with nearly 1300 participants provide initial empirical support for the idea that stakeholder expectations (of exclusive profit maximization or of the possibility of corporate prosociality) affect their protest decisions. Amazon Mechanical Turk workers had the opportunity to sign a real Greenpeace petition against Amazon, the platform that runs Mechanical Turk. Those randomly assigned to learn an exclusive profit maximization norm were less likely to sign the petition than those randomly assigned to learn that firms can and should care about society. Exclusive profit maximization led participants to believe it less appropriate and effective for employees to push for social change, and that fewer firms would care and fewer others would protest. Expecting corporate prosociality instead could thus plausibly make it easier for firms to do well by doing good.

Keywords: corporate prosociality, ESG, stakeholderism, corporate purpose

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hajin, Expecting Corporate Prosociality (October 10, 2022). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 978, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4282358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4282358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
137 References
Philippe Aghion , Roland Bénabou , Ralf Martin , Alexandra Roulet
Environmental Preferences and Technological Choices: Is Market Competition Clean or Dirty? Posted: 2020
James Andreoni
Impure Altruism and Donations to Public Goods: A Theory of Warm-Glow Giving
The Economic Journal , volume 100 , issue 401 Posted: 1990
Paolo Antonetti , Stan Maklan
Feelings That Make a Difference: How Guilt and Pride Convince Consumers of the Effectiveness of Sustainable Consumption Choices
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 134 Posted: 2014
Yonathan Arbel
Reputation Failure: The Limits of Market Discipline in Consumer Markets
Wake Forest Law Review , volume 54 Posted: 2019-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
231,609
137 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies