Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mixed-Ownership Structure, Non-State-Blockholder Coalition, and Tax Avoidance

57 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022

Wenbin Long

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Huiyingu Wu

Western Sydney University

Lidan Li Li

Jinan University

Sammy Ying

Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle

Sihai Li

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between a coalition of non-state blockholders and corporate tax avoidance in a context in which state and non-state ownership coexist and the ownership structure is concentrated. The results show that the dominance of the non-state-blockholder coalition, defined as a situation wherein non-state blockholders’ total shareholding is greater than that of state blockholders among the top 10 largest shareholders, is positively associated with corporate tax avoidance. We identify two channels through which the non-state-blockholder coalition influences tax avoidance behavior, namely an increase in the number of shareholder meetings and the availability of online voting at shareholder meetings. We also find that the non-state-blockholder coalition is more effective when coalition members are more likely to coordinate, as indicated by having fewer members, greater shareholding stability, and lack of foreign shareholders within a coalition.

Keywords: tax avoidance, ownership structure, large shareholders, ultimate controller

Suggested Citation:

Long, Wenbin and Wu, Huiyingu and Li, Lidan Li and Ying, Sammy Xiaoyan and Li, Sihai, Mixed-Ownership Structure, Non-State-Blockholder Coalition, and Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4282577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
385
RANK
692,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies