Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individualistic CEOs and Financial Misstatements

Posted: 22 Nov 2022 Last revised: 21 Nov 2024

Ran An

Wenzhou-Kean University - College of Business and Public Management; Xiamen University; School of Management, Xiamen University

Feng Tian

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Yinglei Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Date Written: November 22, 2022

Abstract

Using the uncommonness of first names as a proxy for individualism at the personal level, we find that individualistic chief executive officers (CEOs) are 50–60% more likely to make financial misstatements and are approximately twice as likely as other CEOs to have irregularities (i.e., material and fraudulent misstatements). We further document that this positive relationship is mitigated by the presence of an independent board and is amplified when individualistic CEOs are socially active or when the management team’s ability is low and thus the likelihood of poor underlying financial performance is high. We address potential selection issues with difference-in-differences tests using CEO turnovers and tests based on various matching methods. Specifically, we find that when a non-individualistic CEO (individualistic CEO) is succeeded by an individualistic CEO (non-individualistic CEO), the likelihood of misstating earnings increases (decreases).  Moreover, our results are robust to the inclusion of a battery of controls for CEO personal traits, including CEO overconfidence, CEO narcissism and CEO myopia. Overall, our findings suggest that the cultural background of managers significantly influences their corporate behavior.

Keywords: CEO, individualism, culture, uncommon name, financial misstatement, financial irregularity

Suggested Citation:

An, Ran and Tian, Feng and Zhang, Yinglei, Individualistic CEOs and Financial Misstatements (November 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4282381
 Not Available for Download
112 References
R Abramitzky , L Boustan , K Eriksson
Do immigrants assimilate more slowly today than in the past?
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 141 Posted: 2020
B Agcayazi , A M Hibbert , T G Morillon
CEO international background and cross-border M&As
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 164 Posted: 2024
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies