Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negative ESG Incidents and Corporate Political Connections

37 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Rotana Alkadi

King Abdul Aziz University, College of Business, Finance Department

Sandeep Rao

Dublin City University Business School

Santosh Koirala

University of Birmingham, Birmingham Business School

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

Negative ESG incidents and practices have gained traction in the recent past, severely damaging the firm's reputation and survival. Firms may adopt political investment strategies to mitigate the risks associated with these negative ESG incidents. Using corporate political contributions in the US, we find that firms with greater negative ESG incidents tend to have a higher intensity of political connections, measured by both the number of candidates the firm supports and the hard-money contributions in their election campaigns. Our results show that the intensity of association between corporate political connections varies across the three components of ESG. Further evidence suggests that the equity-based compensation of the board of directors is positively associated with political candidates supported and total contributions. Finally, we show that such corporate political connections positively moderate the firm's value of negative ESG incidents firms. Overall, drawing on institutional theory, this paper shows that firms with negative ESG incidents consider investing in political strategies essential to construct new legitimate standards.

Keywords: ESG, ESG dimensions, negative ESG incidents, corporate political connection, corporate reputation risk, political hard-money contributions, firm value

JEL Classification: D72, G30, G32, M14, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Alkadi, Rotana and Rao, Sandeep and Koirala, Santosh, Negative ESG Incidents and Corporate Political Connections (November 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4282186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4282186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,612
RANK
179,657
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies