Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collusion in the Presence of Antitrust Prosecution: Experimental Evidence

53 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Heiko A. Gerlach

University of Queensland - School of Economics

Date Written: November 21, 2022

Abstract

We conduct an experimental study of cartel behaviour in the presence of an active competition authority that may respond to suspicious pricing behaviour by firms. We find that subjects are doing very well in developing strategies to avoid antitrust detection. We observe gradual price increases and staggered pricing conforming with theory. Surprisingly, the presence of potential antitrust prosecution tends to improve the internal functioning of cartels. Cartel stability is significantly higher and punishment weaker in the treatments with active cartel detection relative to the treatment where cartels are legal. We ascribe these results to the esprit de corps effect induced by cartel prosecution. Notwithstanding, ex ante expected market prices are lower with antitrust prosecution strategies due to a combination of lower cartel formation rates and lower avoidance pricing.

Keywords: Collusion Experiment, Antitrust Cartel Enforcement, Repeated Games, Esprit de Corps

JEL Classification: C92, L13, L41

Suggested Citation:

Gerlach, Heiko A. and Li, Junqian, Collusion in the Presence of Antitrust Prosecution: Experimental Evidence (November 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4283168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
687,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies