Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Alignment:The Impact of Business Strategy on Disclosure Choice and Firm Value

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Wei Shi

Deakin University

Luofeng Zhou

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: November 22, 2022

Abstract

We find that firms that act as product leaders (operational excellence) tend to make less (more) disclosures by offering more (less) no-answers and refusals to questions during earnings conference calls, consistent with product leaders withholding product-related information and operational excellence seekers being forthcoming to gain competitive advantage. In the cross-sectional analysis, we document that proprietary cost, financial performance, uncertainty and external financing needs moderates the association between business strategy and disclosure choice. The association between strategy and disclosure also varies with strategy execution, as proxies by shareholder-manager interest alignment (equity incentive) and managerial ability. In addition, no-answers and refusals by product leaders is associated with higher firm value. Overall, the evidence suggests that firms make disclosure choice that aligns with their business strategies, and the alignment results in higher firm valuation.

Keywords: Business Strategy; Disclosure Choice; Competitive Advantage; Firm Value

JEL Classification: L10; G14; D40; G32

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Wei and Zhou, Luofeng, The Power of Alignment:The Impact of Business Strategy on Disclosure Choice and Firm Value (November 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283775
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
686
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies