Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interdependence among Dividend Policy, Investment Decision, Financial Performance and Survival of the Firms in Kenya

East African Finance Journal, 3(2), 223-233. Doi :10.59413/eafj/v3.i2.7

11 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Edmond Mukhongo

Technical University of Mombasa

Purity Njeri

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Charles Guandaru Kamau

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: November 21, 2022

Abstract

The main objective of this study was to analyze patterns and tendencies in dividend policy. By extensively reviewing existing literature, the research aimed to establish the connections between dividend policy and other important financial aspects. The study's findings clearly indicate that investors who are astute prefer companies that provide higher dividends rather than keeping their earnings. This preference is due to the liquidity benefits that such firms typically provide, which align with the liquidity requirements of investors in various financial markets worldwide. It is important to note that the distribution of dividends significantly affects the speed of adjusting the capital structure. The conflict between the distribution of dividends and strategic financing initiatives impedes the progress of these adjustments. A majority of institutional entities allocate dividends strategically to increase their financial resources by investing in high-yielding ventures identified by corporate management. However, in emerging economies, the utility and effectiveness of dividends as a signaling mechanism and cost-minimizing tool are relatively reduced compared to more mature and well-established capital markets. Additionally, it is worth highlighting that dividend policy has a statistically significant and positive correlation with variables such as firm size, profitability levels, and interest coverage ratios. This emphasizes the complex relationships that exist between dividend policy and these key financial metrics.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Investment Decision, Financial performance, Dividend pay out

JEL Classification: G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mukhongo, Edmond and Njeri, Purity and Kamau, Charles Guandaru, The Interdependence among Dividend Policy, Investment Decision, Financial Performance and Survival of the Firms in Kenya (November 21, 2022). East African Finance Journal, 3(2), 223-233. Doi :10.59413/eafj/v3.i2.7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4283042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Dividend policy and the organization of capital markets
Journal of multinational financial management , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 121 Posted: 2003
H Ali
Corporate dividend policy in the time of COVID-19: Evidence from the G-12 countries
Finance Research Letters , volume 46 Posted: 2022
A Azhariyah , A D Witjaksono , U Hartono
The effect of profitability, leverage, liquidity, size, and company growth on the dividend payout ratio in the Indonesian Capital Market 2013-2018
BIRCI-Journal): Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1351 - 1360 Posted: 2021
S Bhatt , S Jain
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Dividend Policy: Evidence from Commercial Banks in Nepal , volume 107 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,645
RANK
29,013
4 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies