Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demand for ESG

68 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Malcolm P. Baker

Harvard Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Mark Egan

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Suproteem K. Sarkar

Harvard University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 21, 2024

Abstract

We quantify the value investors place on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) objectives over time and space using a revealed preference approach. Our approach measures investors' willingness to pay for ESG-oriented index funds in exchange for their financial and non-financial benefits. We find that the premium that investors assign to index funds with an ESG mandate rose from 3 basis points in 2019 to a peak of 17 basis points in 2020, before turning negative in 2022 and falling to negative 33 basis points in 2023. The boom and bust in willingness to pay is more pronounced among institutional investors (versus retail investors) and equity investors (versus fixed income investors). In contrast to US investors, European investors' willingness to pay for ESG started at a higher level in 2019 and remains strongly positive in 2023. Although differences in fund holdings explain some of the demand for ESG-oriented funds, much of it is driven by the ESG label itself, which may leave investors susceptible to greenwashing. When we apply our framework to the cross-section of 401(k) participant portfolios, we find that investors in climate-conscious areas and low-emission industries exhibit higher demand for ESG. We offer tentative conclusions on how value is split among investors, intermediary profits, and firm costs of capital.

Keywords: ESG, Index Funds, Demand Estimation

JEL Classification: G11, G50, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Malcolm P. and Egan, Mark and Sarkar, Suproteem, Demand for ESG (November 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4284023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4284023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
V Aguirregabiria , R Clark , H Wang
The geographic flow of bank funding and access to credit: Branch networks, local synergies, and competition Posted: 2019
H Allcott , G Montanari , B Ozaltun , B Tan
An Economic View of Corporate Social Impact
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
J Allen , R Clark , J.-F Houde , S Li , A V Trubnikova
The role of intermediaries in selection markets: Evidence form mortgage lending Posted: 2023
S Alok , N Kumar , R Wermers
Do Fund Managers Misestimate Climatic Disaster Risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1146 - 1183 Posted: 2020-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,065
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,320
RANK
15,661
10 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies