Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs): The Global Investment Mania, Corporate Practices, and Regulatory Responses

Journal of Business Law, 2023, Issue 1, pp. 22-40

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Lerong Lu

The Dickson Poon School of Law, King's College London

Ci Ren

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

In recent years, special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) have quickly emerged as a popular new asset class for international investors as well as a favourable listing option for financiers and entrepreneurs across the world as an alternative to traditional IPOs. The global SPAC transaction volume reached a record high of $157 billion in 2020. This article provides an in-depth and comprehensive analysis on the latest corporate practices and regulations of SPACs, with a primary focus on the United States where most SPACs have been initiated and listed so far. It also considers the practices and regulations in other common law jurisdictions including the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Singapore, which have been reforming their respective listing rules to welcome more SPACs. Besides, the article explains what accounts for the current SPAC frenzy and introduces how such novel corporate vehicle operates in practice. Finally, it analyses the potential future of SPACs based on the last materials and answers if they are mere a passing fad.

Keywords: Special Purpose Acquisition Company, SPAC, IPO, Capital Market, Financial Market, Stock Market, Securities Law, Securities Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Lerong and Ren, Ci, Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs): The Global Investment Mania, Corporate Practices, and Regulatory Responses (November 1, 2022). Journal of Business Law, 2023, Issue 1, pp. 22-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4285018
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies