Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Work Experience and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China

57 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2022 Last revised: 2 Oct 2023

Panagiotis Karavitis

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Pantelis Kazakis

University of Glasgow

Tianyue Xu

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

We ask whether the general managerial skills that Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) gain from lifetime work experience affect corporate tax avoidance. We use a sample of hand-collected data for Chinese-listed companies to develop and validate a new CFO managerial skills index based on four dimensions of CFO work experience: (1) the number of current positions a CFO holds, (2) the number of functional departments a CFO has worked in, (3) the number of firms the CFO has worked for, and (4) whether the CFO has political connections. This index, including a subcomponent for political connections, is particularly appropriate when studying emerging economies that tend to be “relationship-based” rather than “market-based.” We find that CFOs with high general managerial skills are more likely to engage in aggressive tax avoidance. This effect is weaker among CFOs who are approaching retirement, are in their first year of employment, or are too busy. Our findings are robust to the inclusion of a comprehensive list of relevant control variables, tackling endogeneity concerns, and to a battery of other sensitivity tests.

Keywords: Chief Financial Officer (CFO), work experience, managerial skills, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G30, H26, J24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Karavitis, Panagiotis and Kazakis, Pantelis and Xu, Tianyue, CFO Work Experience and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China (November 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
267,591
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies