Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alcohol Consumption and Socialization in Public Accounting Firms

55 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2022 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Macy Knutson

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Spenser Seifert

Columbia College

Kim Westermann

Cal Poly San Luis Obispo

Date Written: May 05, 2025

Abstract

Using a survey of 3,782 public accountants, we examine the context of alcohol consumption in public accounting firms. Drawing on Levine and Moreland’s (1994) stages of organizational socialization to understand the role that alcohol plays in socializing accountants, we find exploratory evidence that not only is alcohol prevalent, but it is also viewed as a cultural hallmark within public accounting firms and more widely across the profession. Alcohol is present across all stages of organizational socialization - investigation, acculturation, and maintenance - and is viewed as an important ritual for individuals to successfully navigate the path from prospective to full membership. While many professionals view alcohol use in public accounting positively (e.g., team bonding), those who do not participate in such rituals face peer pressure, exclusion and consequential career progression impacts. We discuss implications for academics, practitioners, and regulators. 

Keywords: public accounting, survey, alcohol consumption, socializaton

Suggested Citation:

Knutson, Macy and Seifert, Spenser and Westermann, Kimberly, Alcohol Consumption and Socialization in Public Accounting Firms (May 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
K Abernathy , L J Chandler , J J Woodward
Alcohol and the prefrontal cortex
International Review of Neurobiology , volume 91 , p. 289 - 320 Posted: 2010
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Diversity and career trajectories: Evidence from LinkedIn data on race, ethnicity, and gender in auditing
The Accounting Review. Forthcoming Posted: 2025
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: Recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
2019 trends in the supply of accounting graduates and the demand for public accounting recruits
AICPA Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,824
RANK
195,121
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies