Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of a Firm’s ESG Score on Its Cost of Capital: Can a High ESG Score Serve as a Substitute for a Weaker Legal Environment?

29 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Randy Priem

United Business Institutes; Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA); University of Antwerp - Antwerp Management School; KU Leuven; Saint-Louis University, Brussels

Andrea Gabellone

United Business Institutes

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

This article analyses the relationship between the ESG score and the cost of capital of 600 large, mid and small capitalization companies across 17 countries of the European region being a component of the EURO STOXX 600 Index. The article further examines whether the effect is due to the environmental, social, and/or governance component and whether these specifically impact the cost of equity, the cost of debt, the beta, or the leverage ratio of the companies. Furthermore, this article analyses whether a high ESG score can substitute for a weaker legal environment. We find significant evidence that companies having a higher ESG score have a lower cost of capital, but this relationship holds only for firms domiciled in countries having a weaker legal environment, thereby providing evidence for the substitution effect. The ESG score does not seem to have a significant impact on the cost of equity and the beta, although the ESG score has a significant positive impact on the cost of debt, which can be explained by the fact that firms having a high ESG score can significantly obtain more leverage. In countries with weaker legal institutions, the impact of the ESG score on the cost of debt is even significantly negative. In terms of the ESG component, the environmental and social factors have a significantly negative impact on the cost of capital, only in countries having a weaker legal environment, while the governance component positively impacts the cost of capital by allowing firms to borrow more.

Keywords: ESG, cost of capital, sustainable finance, capital structures

JEL Classification: G3, G31, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Priem, Randy and Gabellone, Andrea, The Impact of a Firm’s ESG Score on Its Cost of Capital: Can a High ESG Score Serve as a Substitute for a Weaker Legal Environment? (November 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,724
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,942
RANK
11,309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies