Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brick or Treat: Shareholder Activism and Corporate Leasing

IESE Business School Working Paper No. 4286423

56 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Fang Li

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Carles Vergara-Alert

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the role of shareholder activism on corporate leases. We find that the presence of shareholder activists is associated with large increases in leasing. This association is stronger in periods of high real estate prices and for firms with larger amounts of real estate assets. We also find that higher leasing in the presence of activist investing is accompanied by higher dividend payments and lower investment. The leasing activity associated with shareholder activism is less common when the target firm is acquired or when there is a proxy fight. Finally, we find little evidence that this type of activism is related to corporate governance characteristics.

Keywords: Shareholder activism, leasing, real estate, corporate governance, sale-and-leaseback

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Fang and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Vergara-Alert, Carles, Brick or Treat: Shareholder Activism and Corporate Leasing (November 25, 2022). IESE Business School Working Paper No. 4286423, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4286423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
RANK
381,025
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies