Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition laws, external financing and investment

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 2023

51 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022 Last revised: 23 Jan 2024

James Xede

Hong Kong Metropolitan University

Cephas Simon Peter Dak-Adzaklo

University of Sussex; City University of Hong Kong (CityU), Department of Accountancy, Students

Emmanuel Ofosu

Lingnan University

Solomon W.D. Adza

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of competition laws on external financing and investment decisions around the world. Using a large sample of 21,801 firms across 32 countries, we find a positive association between the stringency of competition laws, and external financing and investment. Our finding is robust to several sensitivity tests, including using alternative measures of external financing and investment, alternative samples and a first-difference change analysis. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the positive association between the stringency of competition laws and external financing and investment is stronger for financially constrained firms, poorly governed firms, and firms in countries with poorer investor protection and weaker legal enforcement. Collectively, our results support the governance role of intensifying market competition in influencing external financing and investment. Using a sample that covers diverse industries and many countries, our study improves our understanding of the effects of market competition, particularly how variation in institutional settings matters for the success of competition laws and should be of value to policymakers.

Keywords: Competition Laws, Corporate Governance, External Financing, Investment

JEL Classification: G15, G30, K21, L4

Suggested Citation:

Xede, James and Dak-Adzaklo, Cephas Simon Peter and Ofosu, Emmanuel and Adza, Solomon W.D., Competition laws, external financing and investment (October 10, 2022). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4287292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
786
RANK
601,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies