Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Firm Performance: The Role of Contextual Variables

British Journal of Management

Posted: 7 Dec 2022 Last revised: 8 Dec 2022

Nitesh Pandey

Amrita School of Business; Malaviya National Institute of Technology

H. Kent Baker

American University - Kogod School of Business

Satish Kumar

Indian Institute of Management Nagpur

Prashant Gupta

Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirappalli

Searat Ali

University of Wollongong; University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Date Written: November 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine the dynamic relationship between board diversity and firm performance in an Indian context using a systems generalized method of moments and control function approach. Our baseline analysis shows that board diversity positively influences accounting performance but negatively affects market performance. Additional analysis reveals that contextual variables, including board independence, firm size, firm age, promoter shareholdings, industry sector, women’s participation in STEM education and the workforce and gross domestic product moderate this relationship significantly. We also find improved market performance after enacting the Companies Act 2013. Overall, these results highlight the critical role of performance measurement and contextual variables in the diversity–performance nexus.

Keywords: Board Diversity, Firm Performance, Government Policy, Control Function, Systems GMM

JEL Classification: G28, G34

Suggested Citation:

Pandey, Nitesh and Baker, H. Kent and Kumar, Satish and Gupta, Prashant and Ali, Searat and Ali, Searat, Board Diversity and Firm Performance: The Role of Contextual Variables (November 23, 2022). British Journal of Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4287041
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies