Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Transparency of Private Equity and Debt Firms

81 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Pascal Böni

Tilburg University; Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Jurian Hendrikse

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Philip Joos

Tilburg University; TIAS School for Business and Society

Date Written: December 08, 2022

Abstract

We study private equity and debt (PE) firms’ Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) transparency. Using Preqin ESG disclosure data specifically tailored to the PE context and a sample of 3,765 PE firms globally, our key findings are threefold. First, average ESG transparency is low in the cross-section at 17% and decreases monotonically from the PE firm- to the portfolio- and asset-levels of disclosure. Second, we find that PE firms’ ESG disclosures are explained by the composition and characteristics of the PE firm investor base, suggesting that the possibility of private communication does not fully subsume investors’ influence on ESG disclosure. Third, we find that highly transparent general partners (GPs) underperform their less transparent counterparts. We find no evidence that the underperformance of highly transparent GPs is because of superior portfolio-level ESG risk or impact characteristics but instead conclude that the results are more consistent with underperforming GPs using ESG disclosure to attract capital. Overall, we provide comprehensive global evidence on ESG transparency in an increasingly economically important part of the financial sector.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, Private Equity, Private Debt, Disclosure, Fund Performance, Limited Partners, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G15, G23, G24, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Böni, Pascal and Hendrikse, Jurian and Joos, Philip, ESG Transparency of Private Equity and Debt Firms (December 08, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4289573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4289573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J K Abraham , M Olbert , F P Vasvari
ESG Disclosures in the Private Equity Industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1611 - 1660 Posted: 2024
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 Posted: 2018
B M Barber , A Morse , A Yasuda
Impact Investing
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , p. 162 - 185 Posted: 2021
B M Barber , A Yasuda
Interim fund performance and fundraising in private equity
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 172 - 194 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,289
RANK
36,918
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies