Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage and Corporate Environmental Policies

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming

Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 23-01

71 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Chenxing Jing

University of International Business and Economics

Kevin Keasey

University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Ivan Lim

Durham University

Bin Xu

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Date Written: November 30, 2022

Abstract

Exploiting two quasi-natural experiments, we find that firms increase emissions of toxic pollution following decreases in analyst coverage. The effects are stronger for firms with low initial analyst coverage, poor corporate governance and firms subject to less stringent monitoring by environmental regulators. Decreases in environmental-related questions raised in conference calls, an increased cost of monitoring to institutional shareholders, reductions in pollution abatement investment and the weakening of internal governance related to environmental performance are channels through which reduced analyst coverage contributes to increases in firm pollution. Our study highlights the monitoring role analysts play in shaping corporate environmental policies.

Keywords: financial analysts, corporate environmental policies, toxic pollution, external monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Jing, Chenxing and Keasey, Kevin and Lim, Ivan and Xu, Bin, Analyst Coverage and Corporate Environmental Policies (November 30, 2022). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming, Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 23-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4290087 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4290087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
655
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,239
RANK
92,184
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies