Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What About the Directors? Does being Different Influence a Director’s Opportunities on the Board?

67 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2022 Last revised: 23 Jan 2025

Sander De Groote

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Mathijs Van Peteghem

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting and Information Management

Dieter Smeulders

University of Bern

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Board diversity is a leading governance theme worldwide. Notwithstanding its merits, existing evidence suggests that diversity can negatively affect boardroom dynamics. Prior findings, however, are based on unidimensional indicators of diversity rather than considering diversity as a constellation of related characteristics and as dependent on the context in which individuals operate. We hypothesize that a director’s decreased similarity to other directors regarding their observable characteristics decreases the likelihood of the director obtaining a prestigious position on the board while increasing their likelihood of turnover. Our results show that directors who are less similar to the rest of the board depart the board at a higher rate, and obtain and retain fewer prestigious board positions. These results indicate that it is important to consider the characteristics of individual directors relative to one another and the roles of individual directors on the board.

Keywords: corporate governance, diversity, Director Differences, Board Committees, Board Leadership, Leadership gap

Suggested Citation:

De Groote, Sander and Van Peteghem, Mathijs and Smeulders, Dieter, What About the Directors? Does being Different Influence a Director’s Opportunities on the Board? (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4290363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4290363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies