Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech Mergers and Acquisitions

Journal of International Money and Finance, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Hao Zheng

University of Leicester - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting

Mike Qinghao Mao

Deakin University - Faculty of Business and Law

Date Written: December 2, 2022

Abstract

Fintech firms have emerged as popular targets for mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in response to the remarkable growth of the fintech industry. However, different acquirers assess the benefits of these deals differently, and the actual benefits realized may diverge from the expected synergies. This study scrutinizes the value of fintech M&As for three types of acquirers: U.S. public banks, nonbank financial institutions, and tech companies. The short-term market reaction to fintech M&As is negative for acquiring banks and insignificant for nonbank financial institutions and tech companies, which is not explained by deal-level or acquirer-level characteristics. Moreover, using a matched sample, we find limited evidence suggesting that fintech M&As contribute to improvements in acquirers’ subsequent operating performance, innovation, or business diversification strategy. Overall, the evidence suggests that fintech acquirers, particularly acquiring banks, may potentially overestimate the benefits of such deals. Our study calls for improved guidelines to ensure more informed decision-making in fintech M&As.

Keywords: Fintech, Mergers and Acquisitions, Bank

JEL Classification: G20, G34

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Hao and Mao, Mike Qinghao, Fintech Mergers and Acquisitions (December 2, 2022). Journal of International Money and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4291498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4291498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Q Akhtar , S Nosheen
The impact of fintech and banks M&A on Acquirer's performance: A strategic win or loss?
Borsa Istanbul Review , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 1195 - 1208 Posted: 2022
F Allen , X Gu , J Jagtiani
A survey of fintech research and policy discussion
Review of Corporate Finance , volume 1 , p. 259 - 339 Posted: 2021
P Asquith , R F Bruner , D W Mullins
The gains to bidding firms from merger
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 11 , issue 1-4 , p. 121 - 139 Posted: 1983
R E Austin , L M Dunham
Do fintech acquisitions improve the operating performance or risk profiles of acquiring firms?
Journal of Economics and Business Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Elena Ochirova , Mikhail Miriakov
The effect of fintech M&As on short-term stock return in the context of macroeconomic environment
Financial Innovation , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Maria E. de Boyrie , Ivelina Pavlova
Bank acquisitions of AI and FinTech: impact on performance
Managerial Finance , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 797 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
854
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,022
RANK
65,156
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies