Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Evidence on Profit Shifting Within Firms and Across Time

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming


82 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2022 Last revised: 11 Oct 2024

Fotis Delis

European Commission, Joint Research Centre

Manthos D. Delis

Audencia Business School

Luc Laeven

European Central Bank (ECB); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Steven Ongena

University of Zurich - Department Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; KU Leuven; NTNU Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 27, 2024

Abstract

We provide estimates of profit shifting for over 2 million firm-year observations in 100 countries over the period 2009–2020. Employing nonparametric estimation techniques within a mainstay model of profit shifting, we examine how the profits of both parent and subsidiary firms within a multinational group respond to marginal changes in the composite tax indicator. The key advantage of this approach is that it yields firm-year estimates of profit shifting. Multinational firms engage in extensive profit shifting by maintaining affiliates in low-tax countries and zero-tax havens. Multinational groups with an ultimate tax-haven owner exhibit the largest profit response to tax incentives. Our new database opens important avenues for analyzing the sources and effects of profit shifting.

Keywords: Profit shifting, multinational enterprises, nonparametric estimation, tax arbitrage, global sample, F23, H25, H26, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Delis, Fotis and Delis, Manthos D. and Laeven, Luc A. and Ongena, Steven R. G., Global Evidence on Profit Shifting Within Firms and Across Time (January 27, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4291888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4291888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Avi-Yonah
A positive dialectic: BEPS and The United States
American Journal of International Law , volume 114 , p. 255 - 259 Posted: 2020
S Beer , J Loeprick
Profit shifting: Drivers of transfer (mis)pricing and the potential of countermeasures
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , p. 426 - 451 Posted: 2015
S Beer , R De Mooĳ , L Liu
International Corporate Tax Avoidance: A Review of the Channels, Magnitudes, and Blind Spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , p. 660 - 688 Posted: 2020
J Blouin , L A Robinson
Double counting accounting: How much profit of multinational enterprises is really in tax havens? SSRN Scholarly Paper No. ID 3491451
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,316
RANK
97,489
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies