Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks' Strategic Trading of Investment Securities and Systemic Risk

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-36

62 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Romain Oberson

IESEG School of Management

Marc Arnold

University of St. Gallen - School of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute

Minyue Dong

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Date Written: October 13, 2025

Abstract

This study analyzes how banks’ trading of investment securities for the purpose of earnings management or regulatory arbitrage affects bank risk. We find that banks that engage more extensively in such strategic trading exhibit higher risk profiles. In addition, strategic trading exacerbates banks’ contribution to systemic risk and increases their exposure to system-wide distress. To understand the drivers through which strategic trading influences systemic risk, we decompose a bank’s contribution to systemic risk into its generic components. This decomposition shows that strategic trading increases a bank’s exposure to macroeconomic and finance factors. We find no evidence that strategic trading increases banks’ interconnectedness or idiosyncratic tail risk. To address endogeneity concerns, we apply a two-stage instrumental variable approach, which confirms our main conjecture. Our results highlight important unintended economic consequences of banks’ strategic trading of investment securities.

Keywords: Banks' Strategic Trading of Investment Securities and Systemic Risk G21, G28, K22, M41 investment securities, strategic trading, regulatory arbitrage, systemic risk, banks

JEL Classification: G21, G28, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Oberson, Romain and Arnold, Marc and Dong, Minyue, Banks' Strategic Trading of Investment Securities and Systemic Risk (October 13, 2025). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4291026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4291026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
V V Acharya , I Drechsler , P Schnabl
A pyrrhic victory? Bank bailouts and sovereign credit risk
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 6 , p. 2689 - 2739 Posted: 2014
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen , T Philippon , M Richardson
Measuring systemic risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
A Admati , M Hellwig
The bankers' new clothes: What's wrong with banking and what to do about it? , volume 13 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
930
RANK
429,664
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies