Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Experts in the Boardroom: Director Connections in the Mutual Fund Industry

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Paul Calluzzo

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 22, 2022

Abstract

This study examines boardroom connections that form when corporate executives sit on mutual fund boards. These connections have the potential to facilitate information flow that informs fund investment decisions. I find that fund trades in the executive’s firm anticipate future earnings news and stock returns during the period that the fund and firm are connected. The evidence is consistent with a broad scope of information being transferred through the connections, implying the potential for these connections to have an economically significant impact. For example, trades in the executive’s firm predict returns both inside and outside of the earnings announcement period, and trades in stocks in the same sector as the executive’s firm also predict returns. This study highlights the potential for the role of fund directors to extend beyond their formal monitoring responsibilities and act as conduits of information.

Keywords: mutual funds, information advantage, board of directors, networks

Suggested Citation:

Calluzzo, Paul, Experts in the Boardroom: Director Connections in the Mutual Fund Industry (November 22, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4292170
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies