Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Leverage, Information Quality, and Efficiency

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 29, 2022

Abstract

We examine information quality and financial leverage when an entrepreneur needs financing to undertake a risky project and his effort input affects the project’s outcome. We show that information quality and financial leverage interact to play active roles in both investment and effort decisions. Our analysis shows a positive association between leverage and optimal information quality–when leverage is low (high), low (high) information quality is optimal. This is because with low leverage, the entrepreneur is already motivated by his large share of the outcome to exert effort, and high information quality is not efficient as a precise bad signal discourages the entrepreneur’s effort. In contrast, when leverage is high and thus the entrepreneur is less motivated by his residual cash flows, high information quality is optimal, because a precise good signal encourages the entrepreneur’s effort. Our study highlights the joint effect of information quality and financial leverage on overall efficiency through firms’ effort inputs as well as on defining investment efficiency.

Keywords: information quality, financial leverage, efficiency, effort decision

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Wen, Xiaoyan, Financial Leverage, Information Quality, and Efficiency (November 29, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4292185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies