Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Value Model For ESG - Proving That ESG Initiatives Can Be Profitable

13 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2022

Sree Sundaram

Independent

Arie Polichuk

Independent

Date Written: December 3, 2022

Abstract

This article is part of a broader research to explore if ESG initiatives are indeed profitable for business (article forthcoming). Here, the development of a framework which can be used to measure and track the business value of such initiatives is presented.

The article begins with a discussion on the development of a framework to measure the business value of an ESG initiative. It shows how common benefit and cost levers used in the framework are arrived. The equations used to calculate the key benefit and cost metrics along with the associated assumptions are presented. Finally, the value model is executed against a representative manufacturing company and explore the value proposition.

All of the models, work and equations are able to the reader through a free template available on Valufy (https://valufy.net). See instructions on downloading Valufy and the ESG value model template in the appendix of the article.

Keywords: ESG, Business Value, Valufication, Valufy, Profitable Sustainability, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Sundaram, Sree and Polichuk, Arie, A Value Model For ESG - Proving That ESG Initiatives Can Be Profitable (December 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4292334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4292334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
481,162
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies