Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Islamic Corporate Governance Disclosure in Financial Performance Mediation on Islamic Social Reporting

Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Ade Onny Siagian

Universitas Bina Sarana Informatika

Asep Muhammas Lutfi

Pamulang University

Aris Ariyanto

Pamulang University

Hadion Wijoyo

STMIK Dharmapala Riau

Date Written: December 5, 2022

Abstract

The social role of Islamic banks shows inconsistencies both at home and abroad; this is the basis for conducting this research to re-explain the Islamic Corporate Governance (ICG) and Islamic Social Reporting (ISR) relationship, models. This study aims to examine the indirect effect of ICG disclosure on ISR disclosure with financial performance as a mediating variable in Islamic Banking in Indonesia. This study uses secondary data with annual report data sources and financial statements on Islamic banking in Indonesia. They are testing this study using stepwise regression analysis with data for the annual reporting period of 2016 through 2019. The result that financial performance mediates the effect of disclosure of ICG on ISR; this shows that proper management of Islamic banks will produce high financial performance so that they can carry out their social roles well too. The contribution of this study is to develop a new model of the part of financial performance mediating the effect of ICG disclosure on ISR so that it is beneficial for the development of science.

Keywords: Islamic Social Reporting, Financial Performance, Islamic Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Siagian, Ade Onny and Lutfi, Asep Muhammas and Ariyanto, Aris and Wijoyo, Hadion, The Effect of Islamic Corporate Governance Disclosure in Financial Performance Mediation on Islamic Social Reporting (December 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4293696
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
337
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies