Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Raising their Voices: Shareholders’ Soft Engagement at Annual General Meetings

53 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022 Last revised: 8 Apr 2023

Alix Auzepy

University of Giessen

Christina E. Bannier

Justus-Liebig-University Giessen

Fabio Martin

University of Giessen - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 5, 2022

Abstract

The right to speak and ask questions at annual general meetings (AGMs) represents one of the few avenues for shareholders to interact directly and publicly with the firm's management. We examine the tone and content of shareholder communication during AGMs with a focus on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Using AGM transcripts of U.S. companies between 2007 and 2021, we find that both institutional and non-institutional shareholders are vocal about sustainability topics, with varying degrees of importance assigned to different ESG issues based on their individual relationship with the firm. Shareholders are demonstrably more vocal and negative about ESG issues at AGMs of firms with poor sustainability performance. Our findings suggest that the AGM dialogue may serve as a barometer of a firm's ability (or inability) to meet shareholder expectations, highlighting ESG areas that require improvement.

Keywords: shareholder engagement, annual general meeting, ESG, textual analysis

JEL Classification: G03, G23, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Auzepy, Alix and Bannier, Christina E. and Martin, Fabio, Raising their Voices: Shareholders’ Soft Engagement at Annual General Meetings (December 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4293762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4293762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,258
RANK
94,419
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies