Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Wall Street to Hong Kong: The Value of Dual Listing for China Concept Stocks

PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Zhuo Chen

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Grace Xing Hu

PBC School of Finance, Tsinghua University

Ziqiong Xi

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Xiaoquan Zhu

University of International Business and Economics - School of Banking and Finance

Date Written: January 15, 2023

Abstract

The U.S. stock market has long been the most popular venue for both foreign companies and global investors. The recent cross-border regulation tensions between the U.S. and China, however, have exposed many U.S.-listed China Concepts Stocks (CCS) to substantial delisting risks, forcing them to pursue dual listings on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEX). In this paper, we quantify the economic value of dual-listing, using the SEC’s adoption of the final amendments implementing mandates of the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (HFCAA) on December 2, 2021 as a natural experiment. We estimate that CCS with preshock dual-listing status on average have 14.88% higher returns, or USD 8 billion in market capitalization, than their peers listed only on the U.S. exchanges during a three-month period after the shock. Our findings survive a set of robustness checks, including parallel trends test, alternative treatment and control groups based on the qualified but not yet dual-listed CCS, and various sub-sample and placebo analyses. In addition to stock returns, dual-listed CCS are also less adversely affected in trading volume, volatility, and liquidity. Our findings highlight the large economic impact of the escalating political U.S.-China tensions on the global financial markets.

Keywords: Cross-border Regulation; China Concept Stocks; Dual listing

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhuo and Hu, Grace Xing and Xi, Ziqiong and Zhu, Xiaoquan, From Wall Street to Hong Kong: The Value of Dual Listing for China Concept Stocks (January 15, 2023). PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4293637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4293637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,047
RANK
163,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies