Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DETERMINANTS OF CORPORATE DISCLOSURES: A CONCEPTUAL MODEL EMANATING FROM POLITICAL ECONOMY THEORY

: Priyadarshanie, W.A.N., Md Yusoff, S.K.B., & Azam, S.M.F. (2023). Determinants of corporate disclosures: a conceptual model emanating from political economy theory. Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 27(S1), 1-15

15 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2023

Nadeesha Priyadarshanie

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: January 4, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to develop a conceptual framework based on the most
commonly used theories in corporate disclosure literature to explain firms’ motives for
disclosure decisions.
Design / methodology/ approach: System-oriented theories namely, institutional theory,
stakeholder theory and institutional theory are integrated into one model to explain the
determinants of corporate disclosures. Thereby, variables were identified under each theory and
indicators which can be used as the proxy for the variables were also recognized.
Findings: Disclosure literature confirms that political economy theory is the most
commonly used theory in explaining determinants of corporate disclosure level. Accordingly,
Profitability, company age, firm size and media exposure can be used as the measures of
corporate legitimacy. Shareholder power, creditor power and lobby group power were taken as
the variables of stakeholder theory. Isomorphism which is the practice of adopting similar
practices is considered under the institutional theory. Coercive isomorphism, mimetic
isomorphism, and normative isomorphism are three separate isomorphic processes and
indicators were recognized for each isomorphism.
Research limitations/ implications: The main limitation of this study is that this
conceptual framework has included only the political economy theory. Other important theories
such as agency theory, signaling theory, resource dependency theory, media agenda-setting
theory may be used to explain corporate disclosure practices.
Practical implications: This conceptual framework can be employed in empirical studies
on the motivations for corporate disclosure behaviors in a variety of settings. The predicted
disclosure motivates can be compared to empirical evidence of those studies. Findings obtained
by utilizing this conceptual framework will help to evaluate which companies report? Under
which context, in which sectors and of which size? And it answered whether there is uniform
reporting across industries. Those findings will help regulators to establish a code of practice
for disclosing information which leads to a better practice of reporting.
Originality / Value: This paper has presented a conceptual model for determinants of
corporate disclosures which is not discussed elsewhere in the literature.

Keywords: Corporate Disclosures, Legitimacy Theory, Stakeholder Theory, Institutional Theory, Conceptual Model.

JEL Classification: E 044

Suggested Citation:

Priyadarshanie, Nadeesha, DETERMINANTS OF CORPORATE DISCLOSURES: A CONCEPTUAL MODEL EMANATING FROM POLITICAL ECONOMY THEORY (January 4, 2023). : Priyadarshanie, W.A.N., Md Yusoff, S.K.B., & Azam, S.M.F. (2023). Determinants of corporate disclosures: a conceptual model emanating from political economy theory. Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 27(S1), 1-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4293473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: A literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
A Amran , R Haniffa
Evidence in development of sustainability reporting: a case of a developing country
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 141 - 156 Posted: 2011
J Andrades , D Martinez-Martinez , M Larrán Jorge
Corporate governance disclosures by Spanish universities: how different variables can affect the level of such disclosures?
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 86 - 109 Posted: 2020
D G Barako , P Hancock , H Y Izan
Factors influencing voluntary corporate disclosure by Kenyan companies
Corporate Governance: an International Review , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 125 Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Nadeesha Priyadarshanie
DETERMINANTS OF CORPORATE DISCLOSURES: A CONCEPTUAL MODEL EMANATING FROM POLITICAL ECONOMY THEORY
: Priyadarshanie, W.A.N., Md Yusoff, S.K.B., & Azam, S.M.F. (2023). Determinants of corporate disclosures: a conceptual model emanating from political economy theory. Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 27(S1), 1-15 · 15 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
RANK
687,436
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies