Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bangladesh’s Learning from Corporate Governance in Japan

Journal of Japanese Studies: Exploring Multidisciplinarity, vol. 1, no. 1, 2022, pp. 135–56

26 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022 Last revised: 28 Mar 2023

Shiblee Noman

Independent

Sheikh Rashid Bin Islam

Kobe University

Date Written: January 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper attempts to investigate the practice of corporate governance in Japan since it has largely contributed to the country’s financial management. That, in turn, led to the unprecedented economic boom of Japan. The practice and objective of corporate governance have got a different momentum in Japan despite its origin from the firm’s Anglo-American theories, particularly ‘Agency theory.’ The convergence and divergence in corporate governance due to innovation and customisation of practices fitting in with the national culture have made Japan’s practice different. The model Japan has evolved is now being attempted to be replicated by many developed economies. Issues like a stockexchange scam, business organisations functioning as pressure groups, and electronic robbery in the Central Bank of Bangladesh have shown us that as a growing economy in South Asia, Bangladesh requires a model to adapt and learn from the existing practices of corporate governance to ensure the acceleration of economic development. This paper is a qualitative review study based on the existing literature—journal articles, book chapters, newspaper articles, interviews of experts, and periodicals. The paper attempts to identify the practice of corporate governance in Japan and prescribe a possible model for Bangladesh to contribute to the economic growth of this developing economy.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Japan, Bangladesh, Learning, Economic Growth

Suggested Citation:

Noman, Shiblee and Islam, Sheikh Rashid Bin, Bangladesh’s Learning from Corporate Governance in Japan (January 1, 2022). Journal of Japanese Studies: Exploring Multidisciplinarity, vol. 1, no. 1, 2022, pp. 135–56 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4293261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4293261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies