Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect Of Corporate Governance And Investment Strategy On Financial Performance Of Pension Schemes In Kenya

293 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2022 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

William Akwimbi

University of Nairobi

Date Written: December 5, 2022

Abstract

The study sought to investigate the effect of corporate governance and investment strategy on the financial performance of pension schemes in Kenya. It helped explore the causal relationship among these factors and shed light on the nature of the relationship from a developing country's perspective. Currently, there is little insight relating the financial performance of pension schemes to these variables as multiple factors in the country. Moreover, there is lack of consensus on why similar corporate governance practices in the developed world produced conflicting and sometimes inconclusive results. Most studies did not consider the interaction between intervening and governance structures on pension performance. The studies did not use the multi-equation approach to assess the influence of multiple factors on pension performance. The study sought to address the following key research question: What is the effect of corporate governance and investment strategy on the financial performance of pension funds in Kenya? In particular, the study examined the following specific research questions: i) What is the effect of corporate governance on the financial performance of pension funds in Kenya? ii) Does investment strategy mediate the relationship between corporate governance and financial performance of pension funds in Kenya?; iii) How does the joint effect of corporate governance and investment strategy affect the financial performance of pension funds? The effect of these factors on the financial performance of pension funds was investigated using qualitative and quantitative research designs. It entailed the subset correlational, descriptive, diagnostic, and explanatory research designs. Quantitative data on annual returns on pension funds spanning 2012 to 2020 was used. In addition, qualitative data on governance indicators and investment strategies were utilized. Return on investments (ROI) and Return on Assets (ROA) were used as indicators for pension fund performance. Primary data comprising corporate governance and investment strategy indices were obtained after qualitative data analysis using survey questionnaires from the pension schemes. The study's main conclusion is that the financial performance of pension funds is influenced by the effects of both corporate governance and investment strategy. The study's first hypothesis showed that corporate governance had a significant effect on the lgROI of pension funds. The governance indicators, however, differed in their contribution to predicting the lgROI of pension funds. The second hypothesis of the research revealed that investment strategy had a significant mediating effect on the relationship between governance and pension performance. The third hypothesis of the study established that the joint effect of corporate governance and investment strategy on the lgROI of pension funds was significant though the individual contribution of each variable varied. Only Stakeholders' interests in board decisions and IS index show a statistically significant positive effect on the lgROI of pension funds, while Board Responsibilities showed a statistically significant negative effect. Board structure and composition, Shareholders Rights, Disclosure and transparency, Commitment to Corporate governance, and the Role of stakeholders showed a positive but statistically insignificant effect on the lgROI of pension funds. The findings imply that pension fund managers, investment managers, and policymakers should consider the corporate governance framework in pension funds' management and investment decisions as they are bound to affect their financial performance. The results, too, provide empirical support to the MPT, the APT, the ST, and the CAPM.

Keywords: corporate governance, investment strategy, pension fund, performance

Suggested Citation:

Akwimbi, William, Effect Of Corporate Governance And Investment Strategy On Financial Performance Of Pension Schemes In Kenya (December 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4294189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4294189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
238 References
S N Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performance among Malaysian Listed companies
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of business in Society , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
P Aghion , P Howitt
The Economics of Growth Posted: 2009
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies and complementarities
Organization Science , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
H Aguinis , A Glaves
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research
Journal of Management , volume 38 Posted: 2012-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
RANK
255,414
1 Citations
238 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies