Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing Corporate Social Responsibility in Pakistan: Evidence from the United Kingdom and India’s CSR Directives

Pakistan Journal of Social Research 2022

8 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2022 Last revised: 29 Dec 2022

Samza Fatima

BAHAUDDIN ZAKARIYA UNIVERSITY MULTAN PAKISTAN

Tabassum Sadia

Bahauddin Zakariya University

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

CSR leads to short-term costs that do not drive the business towards the quick economic benefit, but rather it encourages and emphasizes social and environmental change. The objective of this research is to deal with relevant concepts, principles and practices about the effective design and implementation of CSR in Pakistan. This research conducts a comparison of the process of CSR in Pakistan with CSR in India and the U.K. It explores and formulates the process of CSR which can be suitable for the implementation of CSR in Pakistan. Methodology used to conduct this study is doctrinal and qualitative employing exploratory methods. The findings of this paper explore that the 2013 Companies Act offered a history for an Indian version of business sustainability and other excellent possibilities to contribute to a company community connexion that is context-specific and culture-sensitive. The UK firms are making fair attempts to reveal details about their CSR operations. Over the next few years, many of the organizations who are already integrating the CSR reports in their annual results would appreciate that at the end of the year, any socially responsible organization can generate a standout CSR report. Nonetheless, it has been shown that most firms in Pakistan do not comply with these regulations and the responsibility of ensuring that these laws are followed and enforced in their true letter and spirit is assigned to the regulatory organizations responsible for their duties. The analysis of this research provides a theoretical framework that contributes meaningfully in the existing knowledge.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Corporate protected areas, Non-governmental organizations, Philanthropic activity, Voluntarism

Suggested Citation:

Fatima, Samza and Sadia, Tabassum, Implementing Corporate Social Responsibility in Pakistan: Evidence from the United Kingdom and India’s CSR Directives (March 1, 2022). Pakistan Journal of Social Research 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
RANK
517,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies