Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lead Independent Director Reputation Incentives and Audit Fees

32 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022

David Bryan

University of North Florida

Terry Mason

Kansas State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Although prior research has recently begun to examine the effects of independent director reputation incentives and the benefits of having a lead independent director, no study has considered the combined impact: the reputation incentives of lead independent directors. This study integrates these emerging streams of research to investigate whether the reputation incentives of lead independent directors affect audit fees. We find that firms with a lead independent director who has relatively low reputation incentives are associated with higher audit fees (compared to firms with a lead independent director who has neutral reputation incentives), consistent with auditors viewing these firms as riskier. Our results suggest that audit fees are 4.72% higher for these firms, which amounts to $134,753 for the average firm-year observation in our sample. We find that our results continue to hold when using an entropy balancing approach and when conducting several other robustness tests.

Keywords: Lead Independent Directors, Audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Bryan, David and Mason, Terry, Lead Independent Director Reputation Incentives and Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4295593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
RANK
396,898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies