Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Features of Equity Capital Increases by Italian Corporates

Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 709

39 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Francesco Columba

Bank of Italy

Tommaso Orlando

Bank of Italy

Francesco Palazzo

Bank of Italy

Fabio Parlapiano

Bank of Italy

Date Written: July 26, 2022

Abstract

The economic losses inflicted by the pandemic shock caused severe capital shortfalls for many corporates, which led to public measures being adopted to support firms’ recapitalization and the rebalancing of their financial structure. However, evidence about the dynamics and features of these capital increases is scarce. Our work attempts to fill this gap by studying capital increases by Italian non-financial corporations between 2008 and 2020. Stylized facts and insights on the economics of capital increases are provided and the implications for the design of public support programs are discussed. We found that, first, small firms are less likely to raise new equity funds than larger firms; second, capital increases by large and financially vulnerable firms produce countercyclical behaviour, as the amount of these increases rises during downturns; and third, financially sound firms use new capital mostly to finance investments, which in turn expands their sales, while fragile firms tend to rebalance their financial structure with positive outcomes for their likelihood of survival.

Keywords: capital increases, capital structure, corporate finance

JEL Classification: G1, G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Columba, Francesco and Orlando, Tommaso and Palazzo, Francesco and Parlapiano, Fabio, The Features of Equity Capital Increases by Italian Corporates (July 26, 2022). Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 709, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4295440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
539
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Italy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies