Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Bankruptcy of Selected Firms by Applying Altman’s Z-Score Model

Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Nilam Panchal

Gujarat University

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

Financial health is of great concern for a business firm. For measuring the financial health of a business firm, there are lots of techniques available. However, Altman’s “Z-score” has been proven to be a reliable tool. This model envisages predicting the possibilities of bankruptcy of manufacturing organization. The “Z score” analysis has been adopted to monitor the financial health of the company. The current study has been conducted to assess the financial health of firms namely Hindustan Uniliver Ltd, Colgate Palmolive, Nestle, ITC and P&G. All the above companies are manufacturing firms. The research used secondary data from the financial reports of five manufacturing companies for a period of the five years from 2013 to 2017. The study reveals that none of the companies completely belongs to Safe Zone except for few years. Most of the firms are in Distress Zone which clearly indicates that these firms may go Bankrupt in near future

Suggested Citation:

Panchal, Nilam, Predicting Bankruptcy of Selected Firms by Applying Altman’s Z-Score Model (December 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296502
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies