Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prioritizing CSR Components for Value Enhancement: Evidence from the Financial Industry in Developed and Emerging Markets
Heliyon

35 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2022 Publication Status: Published

Boonlert Jitmaneeroj

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

Abstract

This study uses structural equation modeling to prioritize CSR components including environmental (E), social (S), and governance (G) performance at the indicator and sub-indicator levels. Based on the panel data of 1,029 (471) companies in the financial industry of developed (emerging) markets over the period of 2010 to 2020, the results show that the combined effects of CSR components enhance stock value, with relatively stronger impacts in developed markets than emerging markets. The priority of CSR components for value enhancement at the ESG indicators and sub-indicators depends on the levels of market development. Specifically, governance (governance) is the key value-driver, followed by environmental (social), and social (environmental) dimensions for developed (emerging) markets. This implies that of all ESG indicators governance is the most critical value-driver for companies in the financial industry of both markets. A plausible explanation is that companies in the financial industry have given the highest priority to good governance because the failure of corporate governance functions has been identified as a main cause of the 2008 financial crisis. At the ESG sub-indicator level, resource use (innovation), community (product responsibility), and management (CSR strategy) are the critical value-drivers for E, S, and G dimensions in developed (emerging) markets, respectively. These findings enable corporate managers to prioritize CSR components by the top-down decisions on the ESG indicators, followed by their sub-indicators.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, stock value, corporate governance, ESG, financial industry

Suggested Citation:

Jitmaneeroj, Boonlert, Prioritizing CSR Components for Value Enhancement: Evidence from the Financial Industry in Developed and Emerging Markets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4296384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies