Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictive Modeling to Explore the Relationship between Accounting Information and Systemic Risk: Empirical Investigation from India

8 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Vishnu Sunilkumar

University of Mysore, India

Nisha Pillai

University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC)

Date Written: October 15, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we present the results of an empirical study that examined the association between accounting information and systematic risk. We examine the financial statements of 11 companies listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) for the period 2016-2021 to determine whether financial ratios are related to systematic risk. Using the model assumptions and our dataset, we first assess whether ordinary least squares linear regression is appropriate for analyzing financial statements. Our results indicate that it is necessary to explore suitable machine-learning approaches to better understand historical accounting information and its relationship to market risk.

Keywords: Accounting, Finance, systematic risk, Regression, Machine learning, Deep learning

Suggested Citation:

Sunilkumar, Vishnu and Pillai, Nisha, Predictive Modeling to Explore the Relationship between Accounting Information and Systemic Risk: Empirical Investigation from India (October 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4296764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies