Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure and Acquisition: Evidence From Material Contract Redactions

55 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Kyungran Lee

Neoma Business School

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

We examine the unstudied role of mandatory disclosure of material contract information in the corporate control market. Using redactions in SEC filings, which permit firms to restrict otherwise mandatorily disclosed proprietary information to protect their product markets, we find that firms redact more when they face a higher likelihood of takeover. This finding is consistent with the acquisition theory that firms can successfully “sell” their innovation to potential acquirers by protecting their monopoly rents from rivals. Redaction firms in turn face a higher likelihood of takeover compared to their propensity-score matched non-redaction counterparts. Consistent with targets signaling proprietary information through redaction, successful acquisitions also associate with higher target and acquirer merger announcement returns and higher post-acquisition sales of the merged firm. These findings suggest that the SEC’s recent simplification of the redaction process can significantly affect acquisition likelihood and surplus in the corporate control market.

Keywords: Mandatory disclosure, Proprietary information, Confidential treatment, Material contract redaction, Acquisition likelihood, Merger surplus

JEL Classification: D8, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Hong, Hyun A. and Lee, Kyungran and Ryou, Jiwoo, Mandatory Disclosure and Acquisition: Evidence From Material Contract Redactions (December 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4297574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4297574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
312,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies