Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria

International Journal of Management Studies and Social Science Review, 2022

Posted: 13 Feb 2023

Ifeanyi Madumere

Federal University Otuoke - Department of Accounting

George Ihenacho Ubani

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2022

Abstract

The evolution of corporate social responsibility can be traced back to the nineteen century. During this period, there were increased concerns about the welfare of the employee, and firms became focused on the impact they have in the societies. Events such as the great depression and the industrial Revolution further propagated the trend. Thus, this study became necessary to evaluate Financial Characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria, To carry out this study, 30 firms were studied, related literature were review, two research questions and two hypotheses was adopted and analysed. Primary and secondary data were collected. The result shows that the minimum scores for corporate social responsibility expenditure, Profit Margin, Revenue and Total Assets are N13.04, N-692.90, N395,626.67, N1,196,826.67 respectively. The maximum score for corporate social responsibility expenditure, Profit Margin, Revenue and Total Assets are N20.29, N470.87, N291,340,471,.30, N420,832,907.70 respectively, while the Mean Value for corporate social responsibility expenditure, Profit Margin, Revenue and Total Assets are: N16.2467, N4.2470, N54907514.6982, N78548427.2573. The study recommend among others: that the quoted companies in Nigeria should continue to engage in CSR activities to further improve companies Total Assets, even though it does have any significant relationship with Profit Margin and Revenues of Companies in Nigeria. It recommends that management of quoted Companies in Nigeria, take CSR activities serious in terms of caring for the employee relations and the environmental management system, since it has a significant positive impact in their Assets base.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Characteristics, Profit margin, Employee Relation, Total Asset.

JEL Classification: F38

Suggested Citation:

Madumere, Ifeanyi and Ihenacho Ubani, George, Financial Characteristics and Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria (September 30, 2022). International Journal of Management Studies and Social Science Review, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4297248
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies