Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insurance Rate Regulation, Management of the Loss Reserve, and Pricing

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming doi: 10.2308/TAR-2020-0637

52 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022 Last revised: 18 Jun 2023

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

John Page

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Bohan Song

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: December 9, 2022

Abstract

Insurance pricing is subject to stricter regulation in some states than others. This cross-sectional variation, coupled with the occurrence of staggered deregulation in several states, enables a powerful test of the political cost hypothesis that managers manipulate accruals to mitigate adverse effects of rate regulation. We show that insurers understate their loss reserve accruals in more regulated regimes, a finding that contrasts with most prior studies documenting expense-increasing accruals in regulatory pricing settings like utilities. We theorize and find evidence that regulator-enabled cartel-like collective rate making leads to premiums being higher than the competitive level. Our results are consistent with accounting manipulation being used to justify deviating from these high rates and showcase a role for accounting in cartel enforcement.

Keywords: loss reserve management; insurance pricing; insurance rate regulation

JEL Classification: M41, G18, G22, G32

Suggested Citation:

Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Page, John and Song, Bohan, Insurance Rate Regulation, Management of the Loss Reserve, and Pricing (December 9, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming doi: 10.2308/TAR-2020-0637, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4298615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
Management of the loss reserve accrual and the distribution of earnings in the property-casualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 347 - 376 Posted: 2003
P Born , J Bradley Karl , R W Klein
Does State Rate Regulation Matter? An Assessment of the Effects of More Stringent Regulation on Insurers' Performance in Homeowners Insurance Posted: 2018-07-27
R L Brown , L R Gottlieb
Introduction to ratemaking and loss reserving for property and casualty insurance Posted: 2007
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
846
RANK
342,507
3 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies