Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industrial Accidents: The Mediating Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Policy Measures

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 1-13

Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Stefano Caiazza

Università degli Studi di Roma Tor Vergata - Dipartimento di Economia e Finanza

Giuseppe Galloppo

Università degli studi della Tuscia

Gabriele Lattanzio

The University of Melbourne, Faculty of Business and Economics, Department of Economics

Date Written: December 10, 2022

Abstract

Using a novel hand-collected sample including 159 industrial events that occurred between 2000 and 2020, we document that corporate social performance (CSP) generally acts as a halo effect mitigating the stock market drop following these events. These findings, robust to many alternative specifications, provide novel evidence shedding light on how corporate social capital acts as a mitigating device against the consequences of tail events. To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the first studies investigating the mitigation role of CSP in the aftermath of an industrial accident by analyzing a large global sample of industrial incidents. The practical and theoretical implications of our findings are at the bottom of that form of a socially normative corporate force embedded in social trust, smoothing managers' and stakeholders' interests together.

Keywords: CO2 emission, corporate social performance, environmental policy, ESG, industrial accidents, mitigation effect, stock returns

JEL Classification: Q51, G14, Q53, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Caiazza, Stefano and Galloppo, Giuseppe and Lattanzio, Gabriele, Industrial Accidents: The Mediating Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Policy Measures (December 10, 2022). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 1-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298915
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies