Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internal Control on Stock Performance: Evidence from China Listed Companies

Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Zihan Yang

Independent

Date Written: December 10, 2022

Abstract

The primary orientation of this research is to explore the impact of internal control on corporate stock performance. The stock data of 10206 listed companies in the Chinese market during 2001-2020 with effective DIB internal control index are collected and utilized as samples. Regression analysis is carried out as a central methodology, and the grouping approach is adopted according to industry codes, namely financial and non-financial industries. We discovered a positive linear relationship between internal control quality and companies’ stock performance. When the quality of internal control achieves a certain level, its impact on stock performance is positive. Besides, we investigated that the role of internal control is less significant role in the financial sector. As for the robustness test, the results apply to the instrumental variable analysis, and the endogeneity is effectively qualified. The results provide insightful guidance for China’s stock market, especially the financial industry regulators, and support that the relationship between internal control and corporate stock performance is favorable with a particular control degree, which further guarantees the market’s overall emphasis on internal control.

Keywords: internal control, stock performance, financial and non-financial industries, Chinese stock market

JEL Classification: G38, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Zihan, The Impact of Internal Control on Stock Performance: Evidence from China Listed Companies (December 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298799
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
520
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies