Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Venture Capital on Digital Business Transformation of German Corporations

20 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022

Nadine Ladnar

Universidad CEU San Pablo; FOM University of Applied Sciences

Lars Klingenberger

Masaryk University, Department Finance, Faculty of Economics and Administration; FOM University of Applied Sciences

Daniel Harder

Masaryk University, Department Finance, Faculty of Economics and Administration

Alexander Zureck

FOM University of Applied Sciences - ESSEN

Date Written: December 11, 2022

Abstract

An increasing commercial focus on digital business transformation is leading corporate venture capital (CVC) investors to the challenge of how to deal with this trend. Much research has been conducted on digital business transformation and CVC independently. However, the interaction between the two has not been explored. This research gap is addressed in this paper. Based on an exploratory research design, eleven expert interviews have been carried out. The results show (1) how CVC can be designed to achieve open innovation, (2) how the leadership of digital exploration, exploitation, and ambidexterity might be built up, and (3) the layers on which CVC can be applied in the context of digital business transformation. This provides an answer to the overarching research question of how CVC supports innovation processes, resulting in digital business transformation. Based on the evidence from the German market, wider recommendations for CVC investors pursuing the strategic and focused goals of the investing company are presented.

Keywords: corporate venture capital, corporate finance, entrepreneurship, innovation, digital business transformation

JEL Classification: G24, G32, M13, M15, O36

Suggested Citation:

Ladnar, Nadine and Klingenberger, Lars and Harder, Daniel and Zureck, Alexander, Impact of Corporate Venture Capital on Digital Business Transformation of German Corporations (December 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4299388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4299388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
354,044
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies