Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Firm Value During the COVID-19 Pandemic: The Case of Palestine as a Frontier Market

27 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2022

Suhail Sultan

Birzeit University

Yousef Hassan

Birzeit University

Lorne Switzer

Concordia University, Quebec

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between corporate governance mechanisms and firm value for companies listed on a new frontier market, the  Palestine Stock Exchange before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. We study the effects of corporate governance mechanisms and firm value of two years before the start of the pandemic (2018-and 2019-) and two years subsequent to the onset of the pandemic (2020 and 2021). Two corporate governance mechanisms stand out in terms of enhancing valuation since the onset of the pandemic: a) enhance female representation on the board; b) the presence of an audit committee on the board.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Firm value, frontier market, Palestine Stock Exchange, COVID-19.

Suggested Citation:

Sultan, Suhail and Hassan, Yousef and Switzer, Lorne, Corporate Governance and Firm Value During the COVID-19 Pandemic: The Case of Palestine as a Frontier Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4299803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4299803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
RANK
588,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies