Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SME Corporate Governance: A Literature Review of Informal Mechanisms for Governance

Handley, K. & Molloy, C. (2022). SME corporate governance: a literature review of informal mechanisms for governance. Meditari Accountancy Journal, online. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-06-2021-1321

24 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Karen Handley

University of Newcastle (Australia) - Newcastle Business School

Courtney Molloy

University of Newcastle (Australia) - Newcastle Business School

Date Written: October 2, 2022

Abstract

Purpose – This paper takes a structured literature review (SLR) approach to identify gaps in the literature and suggest future research opportunities. It focuses on corporate governance (CG) performed outside the formal board of directors’ structure and examines research of alternative CG of small and medium-sized entities (SMEs).

Design/methodology/approach – The authors use the SLR method to search the Scopus database,
extracting and synthesising findings relating specifically to SMEs’ CG. These are tabulated and described using bibliometric software.

Findings – The authors highlight an absence of tailored theoretical approaches to understanding CG in SMEs, which differs from the governance of larger entities. They also find evidence of alternative governance structures in SME CG.

Research limitations/implications – Further research should embrace management and other
theoretical perspectives and expanded methodologies, nuances in understanding offered in contextualised settings and awareness of practical implications to better understand the specific setting of CG in SMEs.

Practical implications – SMEs seek to access the scarce resources and skills external to their formal CG structures. Regulators and resource providers should mobilise facilitation and training for this expansion.

Originality/value – The authors synthesise a large body of literature to extract findings specific to SMEs. A unique contribution is our focus on alternative forms of CG in SMEs. Evidence of alternative boards points to resolutions for human capital shortages in SMEs.
Paper type Literature review

Keywords: Corporate governance, Structured literature review, Alternative boards, Resource-led structures, Small and medium-sized entities

Suggested Citation:

Handley, Karen and Molloy, Courtney, SME Corporate Governance: A Literature Review of Informal Mechanisms for Governance (October 2, 2022). Handley, K. & Molloy, C. (2022). SME corporate governance: a literature review of informal mechanisms for governance. Meditari Accountancy Journal, online. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-06-2021-1321, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4299533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
336,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies