Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Control and Family Character on Firm Performance: Evidence from Chinese Family Firm

Posted: 23 Dec 2022

Weixi Wang

Independent

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

The study examines the effects of family firm performance on two perspectives: the internal control perspective measured by the independent commissioner and the family character perspective performed by family involvement and the number of children in the actual controller. Sourced from CSMAR, this paper has 11586 observation samples of Chinese listed multiple-person family firms from 51 industries, spanning from 2010 to 2020 annually. The analysis measurement is multiple linear regression. The analysis results indicate that partially, family involvement has significant and positive impacts on family firm performance, whereas independent directors and the number of children of the actual controller have insignificant impacts on family firm performance.

Keywords: Internal control, family control, family firm, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Weixi, The Effect of Internal Control and Family Character on Firm Performance: Evidence from Chinese Family Firm (December 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300884
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies