Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Three Power, and Why it Matters

Boston University Law Review, Volume 102, pp. 1547-1600
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1087
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-8


59 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Scott Hirst

Boston University - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

This Article focuses on the power and corporate governance significance of the three largest index fund managers commonly referred to collectively as the “Big Three.” We present current evidence on the substantial voting power of the Big Three and explain why it is likely to persist and, indeed, further grow. We show that, due to their voting power, the Big Three have considerable influence on corporate outcomes through both what they do and what they fail to do. We also discuss the Big Three’s undesirable incentives both to underinvest in stewardship and to be excessively deferential to corporate managers.

In the course of our analysis, we reply to responses and challenges to our earlier work on these issues that have been put forward by high-level officers of the Big Three and by a significant number of prominent academics. We show that these attempts to downplay Big Three power or the problems with their incentives do not hold up to scrutiny. We conclude by discussing the substantial stakes in this debate—the critical importance of recognizing the power of the Big Three, and why it matters.

Keywords: Index funds, passive investing, institutional investors, ETFs, Big Three, stewardship, engagement, monitoring, shareholder activism, corporate voting, ownership concentration

JEL Classification: G23, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Hirst, Scott, Big Three Power, and Why it Matters (December 12, 2022). Boston University Law Review, Volume 102, pp. 1547-1600
Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 1087
Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance Working Paper 2022-8
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,405
RANK
15,573
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies