Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Family Control in Determining the Capital Structure: Evidence from Non-Financial Listed Firms

Ekonomski pregled, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2023

Imran Yousaf

Prince Sultan University - College of Business Administration

Seyed Alireza Athari

Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK); European University of Lefke

Dervis Kirikkaleli

European University of Lefke - Department of Banking and Finance

Arshad Hassan

Capital University of Science and Technology Islamabad

Shoaib Ali

Air University - Islamabad

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to examine the effect of family control on the corporate financing decision of firms in Pakistan. This study uses the annual data of 100 non-financial firms listed at PSX for the period 2005-2012. To estimate the impact of family control on the corporate financing decision, we employ the ordinary least square (OLS) method. The findings of the univariate analysis show that a significant difference exists between family and non-family firms based on many characteristics of firms. Multivariate analysis results show that family firms maintain significantly high "total debt ratio" and "short-term debt ratio" compared to non-family firms. There are two reasons why family firms keep high debt ratios compared to non-family firms. First, family-owned firms do not want to dilute their ownership, and that is why they fulfill their major financing needs through debt instead of issuing new shares in the market. Second, family firms in Pakistan use extra cash flows for their private benefits. These findings reveal useful insights for investors, banks, regulators, and business families of Pakistan.

Keywords: Capital structure, Family ownership, Family firm, corporate financing decision, Dilute ownership

Suggested Citation:

Yousaf, Imran and Athari, Seyed Alireza and Kirikkaleli, Dervis and Hassan, Arshad and Ali, Shoaib, The Role of Family Control in Determining the Capital Structure: Evidence from Non-Financial Listed Firms (December 13, 2022). Ekonomski pregled, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
812,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies