Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Director Tenure and Corporate Governance: Evidence from Insider Trading

Accepted at Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis

59 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Meng Gao

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Sheng Huang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

Executives trade more profitably and opportunistically over the course of the tenure of independent directors (IDs). IDs' increased connections with and hence allegiance to executives are likely the channel through which ID tenure can affect executive trading. Executive opportunism is mitigated by disciplinary factors that include the presence of a firm's internal trading policy, blockholders, and IDs with legal expertise as well as the risk of shareholder-initiated derivative lawsuits. These results point to an association between long-tenured IDs and weakened corporate governance.

Keywords: independent directors, director tenure, insider trading, board independence, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30; G34

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Meng and Huang, Sheng, Independent Director Tenure and Corporate Governance: Evidence from Insider Trading (December 12, 2022). Accepted at Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4300157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
292,443
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies