Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation, Institutional Ownerships and Board Diversity

Phan, Thi-Thanh and Yu, Hai-Chin, Innovation, Institutional Ownerships and Board Diversity (September 3, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 59, 4, 1647–1693 (2022). https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11156-022-01102-7

Posted: 6 Jan 2023

Thi-Thanh Phan

National Chengchi University

Hai-Chin Yu

Chung Yuan Christian University

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

This work investigates the relationships between institutional ownership, board diversity, and corporate innovation in US-listed firms. Institutional investors play a crucial role in a firm’s operation and exert considerable influence on the efficient monitoring of innovative investment. Theory predicts that institutional ownership has a positive effect on innovation investment. However, we find that active institutional investors drove this positive relationship. For those passive institutional investors, this impact is negative. However, a banker on the board can change the effect from negative to positive for passive institutional investors. Firms with female directors, a high presence of audit committees, or a large proportion of ethnic minority directors on board have a significant and positive impact on innovation, including R&D investments and the number of patents. The enactment of Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002 made information more transparent to investors and narrowed the gap between active and passive institutional investors on innovation. The findings are robust to addressing endogeneity concerns and causal relationships using the IV-2SLS, Difference-in-Differences approaches, and alternative methodology.

Keywords: Institutional ownerships · Board diversity · Innovation · ESG · Sarbanes–Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G28 · G32 · O31 · H41

Suggested Citation:

Phan, Thi-Thanh and Yu, Hai-Chin, Innovation, Institutional Ownerships and Board Diversity (December 12, 2022). Phan, Thi-Thanh and Yu, Hai-Chin, Innovation, Institutional Ownerships and Board Diversity (September 3, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 59, 4, 1647–1693 (2022). https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11156-022-01102-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300153
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies