Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Executive Compensation

35 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2022

Issam Malki

University of Westminster

Sudha Mathew

University of Westminster

Yaz Gulnur Muradoglu

University of Illinois Springfield

Sheeja Sivaprasad

University of Westminster

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

Corporate boards are responsible for the governance of firms. The board’s responsibilities include setting the strategic aims of the firms, providing the necessary leadership, supervising management, and reporting to shareholders. Given that the overall goal is to maximise firm value, this study analyses the ethnic and gender diversity of boards and its impact on directors’ compensation. Using a sample of FTSE350 listed firms, we examine board diversity in terms of ethnicity and gender and ask whether the presence of ethnic minority and female directors on boards contribute to governance and directors’ compensation. This research is relevant and important as it represents the first study in UK that investigates if board diversity in terms of ethnicity and gender contributes to directors’ compensation. Using Potential Outcome Model for multivalued treatment and the average treatment on the treated estimator, we find that gender and ethnicity there is a causal link between directors’ gender and ethnicity and their outcomes (compensation).

Keywords: Compensation; Corporate boards; Corporate Governance; Board Diversity

JEL Classification: G38, J15, J16, M14

Suggested Citation:

Malki, Issam and Mathew, Sudha and Muradoglu, Yaz Gulnur and Sivaprasad, Sheeja, Board Diversity and Executive Compensation (December 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4301313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
RANK
324,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies