Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Voluntary Disclosure Indices, Corporate Governance and Information Asymmetry; Focusing on Social and Environmental Performance

2nd International Accounting Conference (Contemporary Accounting Thoughts and Emerging Technologies), Khatam University, 8 December 2022, Tehran, Iran

17 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2022

Dr.Hossein Parsian

Plan and Budget organization of Iran

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

This research aims to identify voluntary disclosure indices and components as well as the impact of corporate governance system on information asymmetry. This research is archival survey. In terms of survey research dimension, the statistic population, the accounting and finance’s experts’ views were used and in terms of archive the companies listed in the Tehran Stock Exchange, the purposeful sampling method and for testing the hypotheses the method of structural equation modeling and confirmatory factor analysis with partial least squares approach and Smart PLS software were used. The findings of the research show that corporate governance system mechanisms have a positive and significant effect on voluntary disclosure, financial performance and asymmetric information of companies. On the other hand, the voluntary disclosure of companies also has a positive and significant effect on the information symmetry in the capital market. The results of the research show that financial performance of companies has no significant effect on the companies’ information symmetry. Also, the effect of voluntary disclosure and financial performance as intermediary variables on the relationship between corporate governance system and information symmetry is not significant.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Information Asymmetry, Financial Performance

JEL Classification: G34, D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Parsian, Hossein, Identifying Voluntary Disclosure Indices, Corporate Governance and Information Asymmetry; Focusing on Social and Environmental Performance (December 8, 2022). 2nd International Accounting Conference (Contemporary Accounting Thoughts and Emerging Technologies), Khatam University, 8 December 2022, Tehran, Iran, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4301674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies