Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure Indicators with Focusing on Social and Environmental Performance and Corporate Governance; The Gap between Current and Expected Status

2nd International Accounting Conference (Contemporary Accounting Thoughts and Emerging Technologies), Khatam University, 8 December 2022, Tehran, Iran

Posted: 24 Dec 2022

Dr.Hossein Parsian

Plan and Budget organization of Iran

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

Corporate governance mechanisms can provide a context for voluntary disclosure which results in enhanced information symmetry in the capital market, investor confidence, stock liquidity and profitability of companies. This is essential for economic development of the country. For this reason, the present study aimed to identify voluntary disclosure indicators and to analyze the gap between their current and expected status and corporate governance system from financial-accounting expert’s point of view. Purposive sampling was used in this survey research. Descriptive statistics and t-test were used to test hypotheses and data were analyzed via SPSS software. The results showed that there is a significant difference between current and expected status of voluntary disclosure indicators and corporate governance. Establishment of good corporate governance mechanisms can provide the context for voluntary disclosure and, subsequently, an infrastructure for the country's economic development.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Gap Analysis

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Parsian, Hossein, Voluntary Disclosure Indicators with Focusing on Social and Environmental Performance and Corporate Governance; The Gap between Current and Expected Status (December 8, 2022). 2nd International Accounting Conference (Contemporary Accounting Thoughts and Emerging Technologies), Khatam University, 8 December 2022, Tehran, Iran, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301711
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies