Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prosocial CEOs and Accounting Manipulation

59 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Jun 2025

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Zhejia Ling

California State University, Fullerton

Wei Ting Loh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 30, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the association between chief executive officers’ (CEOs’) prosocial tendency and their firms’ likelihood of accounting manipulations. We measure CEOs’ prosocial tendency based on their involvement with charitable organizations. Our results suggest that prosocial CEOs are less likely to engage in accounting manipulation, as proxied by accounting irregularities identified through material non-reliance restatements and SEC or DOJ enforcement actions. The effect is more pronounced when the charitable organizations that CEOs are involved with directly aim to improve the welfare of others in need, and when CEOs face stronger incentives to manipulate financial statements. These results continue to hold in analyses examining the change in CEOs’ prosocial tendency around turnover events. Taken together, our findings suggest that CEOs’ prosocial tendency, a fundamental personal trait, significantly influences the quality of accounting information.

Keywords: Prosocial behavior; Prosocial tendency; Agency problem; Accounting manipulations.

JEL Classification: D64, G30, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Ge, Weili and Ling, Zhejia and Loh, Wei Ting, Prosocial CEOs and Accounting Manipulation (March 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4304319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,767
RANK
180,190
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies