Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Left to Their Own Devices: Ownership Concentration and Payout Policy

54 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 11 Dec 2023

Heejung Choi

Sunmoon university

Jong-Hoon Kim

Senshu University

Jungwon Suh

Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU)

Konari Uchida

Kyushu University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: December 8, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of concentrated ownership on payout policy in the vacuum of controlling families. Controlling corporate ownership is a dominant form of concentrated ownership among Japan’s listed firms. Unlike institutional investors, controlling corporations prefer retention of earnings over cash distribution with greater opposition to repurchases than to dividends. Controlling corporations fend off the pressure from institutional investors for higher payouts and are lukewarm in embracing board independence. There is no indication that controlling corporate ownership is detrimental to shareholder value. Our results suggest that, absent family control, concentrated ownership yields friction between stakeholder and shareholder capitalism.

Keywords: Share repurchases, dividends, controlling shareholders, institutional ownership, Japan’s corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Heejung and Kim, Jong-Hoon and Suh, Jungwon and Uchida, Konari, Left to Their Own Devices: Ownership Concentration and Payout Policy (December 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4304499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
H V Almeida , D Wolfenzon
A theory of pyramidal ownership and family business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 2637 - 2680 Posted: 2006
F Allen , D Gale
A comparative theory of corporate governance
Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper No. 03-27 Available at SSRN Posted: 2002
G Aminadav , E Papaioannou
Corporate control around the world
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 1191 - 1246 Posted: 2020
N Anolick , J A Batten , H Kinateder , N Wagner
Time for gift giving: Abnormal share repurchase returns and uncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
631,426
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies