Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance of Financial Hedging and Earnings Management Under Diverse Corporate Information Quality

63 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2022

Shin-Rong Shiah-Hou

Yuan Ze University

Chin-Wen Hsin

Yuan-Ze University - Department of Finance

Feng-Yi Chang

China University of Technology

Abstract

Firm managers may choose accruals management (AM) or financial hedging with derivatives (FD) as risk management tools. This study simultaneously considers both tools and tests whether corporate information quality regulates the value effect derived from AM or FD. Our evidence finds that AM practices add values to firms and that quality corporate information further enhances such positive effect. This could be explained by i) the greater added value from smoothed earnings when firms with superior information quality are more efficient in communicating with investors and thus enhance the value effect, and/or by ii) the increased value from mitigating agency issues when firms with better information quality are subject to less agency cost, impose lower information risks for investors, and discourage managerial self-serving motives in their AM practices. Conversely, FD usages, measured using hand-collected data, do not create values for most firms and quality corporate information only deteriorates such negative effect. This arises when hedging practices are ineffective and costly and when quality information only helps revealing to investors such messages. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of information quality, to the omission of financial crisis period, and to the sample exclusion of firms with extreme characteristics.

Keywords: Financial hedging, Earnings management, firm value, Corporate information quality

Suggested Citation:

Shiah-Hou, Shin-Rong and Hsin, Chin-Wen and Chang, Feng-Yi, Performance of Financial Hedging and Earnings Management Under Diverse Corporate Information Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4305534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4305534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies