Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should udu a Convertible Note?

Darden Case No. UVA-F-2025

26 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Elena Loutskina

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Damon DeVito

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

In this field-based case, the founders of udu, Inc. (udu—pronounced "you-do"), a company whose proprietary technology helped private equity clients source deals by identifying target companies and overlooked opportunities, and by shortening the business-development cycle. Clients who had found success with udu's help raved about the technology, but despite their product's promise, the founders were still struggling to find a scalable and profitable application for it, and to grow revenue for the company. The founders eventually sought funding in the amount of $5 million to boost udu's growth potential, but Jay Sarcone, a general partner at Brotherhood Park Ventures, had said udu wasn't ready for that amount because it would not result in a desirable company valuation, and made a far lower offer: $1.3 million in convertible note financing. All three founders agreed that $1.3 million fell far short of their hopes, and that udu would need another fundraising round in a year. But any money, at this point, would help udu progress. Should the founders accept Sarcone's offer, or risk alienating a trusted ally by seeking $5 million elsewhere? And if they did seek $5 million, would it result in a low valuation for udu?

Excerpt

UVA-F-2025

Dec. 14, 2022

Should udu a Convertible Note?

If you are running or working for a private equity fund and you haven't taken bold steps to integrate the latest digital tools and data and analytics (D&A) technology into your business, you may be working with a built-in expiration date.

—“The Digital Transformation Imperative,” KPMG report, 2018

. . .

Keywords: technology, software as a service, SaaS, convertible note, capital raise, angel investing, fundraising, entrepreneurship, private equity

Suggested Citation:

Loutskina, Elena and DeVito, Damon, Should udu a Convertible Note?. Darden Case No. UVA-F-2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4305031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4305031
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies