Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Cross-Ownership Promote Corporate Innovation?

30 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2022

Shixian Ling

Shandong University at Weihai

Zhaohui Li

Shandong University at Weihai

Tianyue Pei

Shandong University at Weihai

Yong Yan

Shandong University at Weihai

Abstract

Cross-owners are investors holding shares in two or more listed companies in the same industry simultaneously. Cross-ownership has become an essential topic in the emerging academic frontier of finance. So far, there are mainly two views on its governance functions: synergistic effects and collusion of interests. This paper empirically examines the influence of Cross-ownership on corporate innovation behavior. The results show that (1) Cross-ownership synergizes corporate innovation activities and could significantly promote corporate innovation. (2) The promotion effect of Cross-ownership on the innovation of state-owned enterprises is more significant. (3) The more the number and the higher the shareholding ratio of cross-owners lead to a more significant promotion effect on corporate innovation activities. This finding still holds after a series of endogeneity treatments and robustness tests. Furthermore, we found that the impact of Cross-ownership on corporate innovation plays a role through two channels: enhancing the intensity of corporate innovation R&D and reducing the cost of capital use. Meanwhile, this promotion effect is more stable and does not change with the variation of marketization of listed companies. Our study enriches the knowledge of the economic consequences of Cross-ownership, verifies its positive governance effects on corporate innovation, and provides the empirical basis for enterprises and decision-makers.

Keywords: Cross-ownership, corporate innovation, collaborative innovation, Corporate Governance, information advantage

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Shixian and Li, Zhaohui and Pei, Tianyue and Yan, Yong, Can Cross-Ownership Promote Corporate Innovation?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4305619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4305619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies