Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Management Practices and Performance of Agri-SMEs in Tanzania: A Structural Equation Modeling Analysis
Social Sciences & Humanities Open

26 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2022 Publication Status: Published

Kulwa Mwita Mang'ana

The Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology; Sokoine University of Agriculture

Daniel Ndyetabula

Sokoine University of Agriculture

Silver Hokororo

Sokoine University of Agriculture

Abstract

Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in agriculture sector, contribute significantly to economic change in developing countries by addressing a wide range of unemployment, nutrition, income poverty, and food security issues. Despite their critical role and contribution to economic growth, they have received a great deal of criticism for their poor performance. Most of the challenges confronting these agro-enterprises, however, are the result of poor financial management practices. Previous research studies have indicated generally that financial management practices have an impact on the performance and success for small businesses, yet scholarly research shows there is limited empirical evidence on which financial management practices have an influence on the agri-SMEs performance, which is why it was critical to examine this phenomenon. A total of 427 SMEs in Tanzania's agricultural sector were surveyed and examined. The developed hypotheses were evaluated using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) with Smart PLS 4 to determine the effect of implementing financial management practices on the performance of agri-SME. Findings from the empirical study shows that working capital management practices and financing management practices have significant positive influence on both financial and organizational performance of the surveyed agro enterprises, while the accounting, financial reporting practices and capital budgeting management practices have insignificant influence on the performance agri-SMEs performance. Based on the findings, the study recommends that the government and regulatory authorities such as the Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO) must continue to emphasize their policies for improved agri-SME performance and sustainability while directly or indirectly encourage managers (venture owners) to consider working capital and financing practices as core to their financial management strategies.

Keywords: Financial Management Practices (Working capital, Financing, Capital budgeting, Accounting and Financial Reporting Practices), Agri-SMEs Performance

Suggested Citation:

Mang'ana, Kulwa Mwita and Ndyetabula, Daniel and Hokororo, Silver, Financial Management Practices and Performance of Agri-SMEs in Tanzania: A Structural Equation Modeling Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4305705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4305705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
PlumX Metrics
Social Sciences & Humanities Open First Look
All Journals (1898)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies