Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Leverage and the Dynamics of Its Determinants

10 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Saumu Amir Riwegho

Technical University of Mombasa

Abdulkadir Banafa

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: December 19, 2022

Abstract

This desktop study was conducted to examine the key determinants of corporate leverage strategy (both short-term as well as medium and long-term debt) in order to address the controversial subject of which of the three major theories of capital structure, particularly regarding tradeoff theory, pecking order theory, and agency cost theory, provides the best predictions as regards the borrowing behavior of firms. The debt ratio is the dependent variable. Pecking order theory is supported by the connection between corporate leverage and firm profitability as well as growth opportunities. The correlation between corporate leverage and firm age and size, meanwhile, is still inconclusive based on both views.

Keywords: Corporate Financing, Capital Structure, Leverage

Suggested Citation:

Riwegho, Saumu Amir and Banafa, Abdulkadir, Corporate Leverage and the Dynamics of Its Determinants (December 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4306699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4306699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
RANK
833,930
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies