Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Capital Structure in the Cement Mining Industry on the Nairobi Securities Exchange

African Journal of Commercial Studies, volume 5, issue 2, 2024 [10.59413/ajocs/v5.i.2.2]

7 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Edmond Mukhongo

Technical University of Mombasa

Abdulkadir Banafa

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: December 19, 2022

Abstract

In today's competitive corporate and economic landscape, businesses strive to increase their value by acquiring additional funds or capital for expansion. These funds can be obtained internally, externally, or through loans, including international borrowing. This study specifically focuses on the factors that influence the capital structure of mining companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. It highlights that businesses in a competitive corporate and economic environment often aim to enhance their value by considering various financing options, such as internal funds, external sources, or loans, including international borrowing. Previous studies have indicated that factors like profitability, company size, asset structure, and external elements such as commodity prices can impact a firm's capital structure, which is typically represented by the debt-to-equity ratio. This study employs a cross-sectional research design to investigate the determinants of capital structure among mining companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The findings emphasize the significant role of profitability and asset structure in shaping capital structures. Additionally, commodity prices and company size also exert an influence. The study provides valuable insights into how firms, especially those in developing countries like Kenya, manage their capital structures in the face of various economic and industry-specific challenges.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Company Size, Profitability, Asset Structure

Suggested Citation:

Mukhongo, Edmond and Banafa, Abdulkadir, Determinants of Capital Structure in the Cement Mining Industry on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (December 19, 2022). African Journal of Commercial Studies, volume 5, issue 2, 2024 [10.59413/ajocs/v5.i.2.2], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4306684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59413/ajocs/v5.i.2.2
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
H Abdullah , T Tursoy
Capital structure and firm performance: evidence of Germany under IFRS adoption
Review of Managerial Science , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 379 - 398 Posted: 2021
J H Asser , C G Kamau
Influence of Participatory Stakeholders Involvement Interventions on Performance of Commercial State Corporations in Kenya
Social Science and Humanities Journal (SSHJ) , volume 8 , issue 7 , p. 4517 - 4530 Posted: 2024
M P Baker , J Wurgler
Why are dividends disappearing? An empirical analysis Posted: 2002
G M Bongoye
Effect Of Capital Structure Determinants on Financial Performance of Non-Financial Firms Listed at Nairobi Securities Exchange Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
RANK
84,001
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies