Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Powerful CEOs in Uncertain Times: Survival of the Fittest

79 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2022 Last revised: 11 Jan 2025

Jiaqi (Jacky) Zheng

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: July 01, 2022

Abstract

Contrary to the conventional focus on the costs of excessive CEO power, this study investigates whether powerful CEOs are beneficial and desirable under uncertainty. The evidence shows that powerful CEOs have a lower dismissal rate in uncertain times. As they exhibit better performance but no increased compensation, powerful CEOs are likely retained optimally for their effectiveness rather than by entrenched power. To mitigate endogeneity concerns surrounding CEO power, this paper utilizes the onset of COVID-19 pandemic as an unanticipated sudden spike in uncertainty, during which CEO power is unlikely to adjust swiftly to external conditions due to stickiness. The study proposes two potential mechanisms explaining why powerful CEOs are more effective under uncertainty: their willingness to share information with the board and their capability to take swift action. Overall, this study challenges the view that CEO power is always manipulative and detrimental.

Keywords: Corporate governance, CEO power, Uncertainty, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Jiaqi, Powerful CEOs in Uncertain Times: Survival of the Fittest (July 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4307819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4307819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founder-ceos and firm performance
Journal of empirical Finance , volume 16 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The journal of finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
336,212
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies