Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Equity Incentives and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Moderating Role of The Internal Control

Wenwu X, Khurram MU, Qing L and Raﬁq A (2023) Management equity incentives and corporate tax avoidance: Moderating role of the internal control. Front. Psychol. 14:1096674. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1096674

13 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 30 Jan 2023

Wenwu Xie

Zhejiang University - City College

Muhammad Usman Khurram

School of economics, Zhejiang university

Asia Rafiq

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 20, 2022

Abstract

Under the modern enterprise system, the principal-agent relationship can cause a conflict of interests between the two power counterparts, thus affecting the degree of corporate tax avoidance. As a tool to align the interests of management and owners, management equity incentives can alleviate the conflict of interests brought about by the separation of powers and, therefore, may influence corporate tax avoidance. This paper discusses the correlation between management equity incentives and corporate tax avoidance from both theoretical and empirical perspectives. By drawing on the existing research results at home and abroad, firstly, the effect of equity incentive on tax avoidance is theoretically and normatively analyzed; secondly, a regression model of management equity incentive and corporate tax avoidance is established, and the data of listed enterprises in China from 2016 to 2020 are used to analyze the correlation between the two through the constructed model, citing the effectiveness of internal control as the moderator variable and distinguishing the ownership of enterprises nature. The following conclusions are drawn from the empirical study: (1) There is a positive relationship between management equity incentives and corporate tax avoidance. (2) Internal control failure enhances this positive relationship. (3) The impact of executive equity incentive on corporate tax avoidance is more significant in state-controlled enterprises than in private enterprises. Finally, our findings have significant implications for policymakers/regulators, public companies, investors, standard setters, managerial labor markets and the welfare of the overall economy.

Keywords: Enterprise Tax Avoidance; Management Equity Incentive; Ownership Type; Internal controls

Suggested Citation:

Xie, Wenwu and Khurram, Muhammad Usman and Rafiq, Asia, Management Equity Incentives and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Moderating Role of The Internal Control (December 20, 2022). Wenwu X, Khurram MU, Qing L and Raﬁq A (2023) Management equity incentives and corporate tax avoidance: Moderating role of the internal control. Front. Psychol. 14:1096674. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1096674, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4307534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
RANK
524,565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies