Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG disclosure and internal pay gap: Empirical evidence from China

Khurram, M. U., Chen, L., Abedin, M. Z., Adu, D. A., & Lucey, B. (2024). ESG disclosure and internal pay gap: Empirical evidence from China. International Review of Economics & Finance, 92, 228-244. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iref.2024.02.023

Posted: 24 Dec 2022 Last revised: 7 Mar 2024

Muhammad Usman Khurram

School of economics, Zhejiang university

Lifeng Chen

Zhejiang University - School of Public Affairs

Mohammad Zoynul Abedin

Teesside University

Brian M. Lucey

Trinity Business School, Trinity College Dublin

Date Written: March 20, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to examine how ESG disclosure can modify the internal pay gap between executives and employees, especially green, high-tech, and SOE enterprises in China. We employed Bloomberg’s ESG disclosure score from 2015 to 2019 to identify the U-shape relationship between ESG disclosure and the internal Pay gap (IPG), adopting the differentiation grouping method of green enterprises, high-tech enterprises, and State-owned enterprises (SOEs) to explore the impact of enterprise heterogeneity, providing more policy enlightenment on ESG performance. Our findings indicate a significant U-shaped relationship between ESG disclosure and the internal pay gap, and endogenous characteristics of green and high-tech enterprises have a positive moderating effect within this U-shaped relationship. These findings are statistically significant and consistent with transmissions with endogenous characteristics of the enterprises. Notably, the connectedness shows dynamic patterns by 2SLS and GMM regression, highlighting the risk of ESG disclosure being the shock transmitters to enterprise internal control. Our study is prone to benefit lawmakers, regulators, and firm executives responsible for analyzing and assessing the pay gap.

Keywords: ESG disclosure; Internal pay gap; State-owned enterprises; Green enterprises; High-tech enterprises

JEL Classification: G18, G30, O30, O32

Suggested Citation:

Khurram, Muhammad Usman and Chen, Lifeng and Abedin, Mohammad Zoynul and Lucey, Brian M., ESG disclosure and internal pay gap: Empirical evidence from China (March 20, 2023). Khurram, M. U., Chen, L., Abedin, M. Z., Adu, D. A., & Lucey, B. (2024). ESG disclosure and internal pay gap: Empirical evidence from China. International Review of Economics & Finance, 92, 228-244. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iref.2024.02.023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4307511
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies