Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Ownership Influence the Efficiency of Indian Banks? – An Application of DEA

International Journal of Innovative Research in Technology, 9(7), 245-247, 2022

3 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2022

Subramanyam T

M.S Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: December 21, 2022

Abstract

Due to globalization, more private and foreign sector banks started working on Indian soil. Due to the entry of these banks, the public sector banks received huge competition in their day-to-day activities. This study attempted to evaluate the impact of ownership of banks in India. The public and private sector banks were evaluated under homogeneous and heterogeneous environments. The results reveal that the heterogeneous environment (ownership) played a significant role in increasing the efficiency of banks. Due to the ownership, the public sector banks experienced more input losses as compared to private sector banks.

Keywords: Data Envelopment Analysis, Ownership, Efficiency, Working environment

JEL Classification: G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

T, Subramanyam, Does Ownership Influence the Efficiency of Indian Banks? – An Application of DEA (December 21, 2022). International Journal of Innovative Research in Technology, 9(7), 245-247, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies