Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Evaluations of Audit Quality Influenced by Management’s Intentions and Outcomes?

Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, Volume 22, 2015 - Issue 2

44 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2023

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Hanwen Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Le Luo

School of Accountancy, Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 18, 2014

Abstract

One major regulatory device for improving audit quality is to require auditors to assess the ‘Tone at the Top’ (that is, the integrity and especially top management’s intentions and attitude towards earnings management), but prior audit research suggests that auditors are quite poor at assessing the knowledge, preferences and intentions of others. In this study, we report results of two experiments in which a material misstatement occurs intentionally (fraud) or inadvertently (error). Shareholders suffer a loss (or no adverse consequence). Experienced auditors (Certified Public Accountants [CPAs]) and a control group of university students assess the appropriateness of the auditor’s conduct and specify a penalty. Experiment 1 results show that CPAs are not influenced by management’s intentions or outcomes. Students are responsive to outcomes but not to management’s intentions. In Experiment 2, we re-ran Experiment 1 using a within-subjects design to make management’s intentions more salient. Experiment 2 results indicate that, this time, both CPAs and students respond to intention but in a manner opposite of that prescribed by professional standards. Students also respond to outcomes, though CPAs do not.

Keywords: tone at the top, intentionality, peer review, evaluating auditor conduct, outcome effects

Suggested Citation:

Jamal, Karim and Chen, Hanwen and Luo, Le, Are Evaluations of Audit Quality Influenced by Management’s Intentions and Outcomes? (May 18, 2014). Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, Volume 22, 2015 - Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
381
RANK
897,300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies