Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor's Technological Proximity Knowledge

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

Posted: 27 Dec 2022 Last revised: 9 Mar 2023

Yue He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Bing Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Zhenbin Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: December 21, 2022

Abstract

We exploit the technological closeness among clients of the same auditor to examine whether auditors accumulate knowledge from their clients’ technological proximity. We find that a client firm’s technological proximity to other clients of its audit office improves audit quality and results in an audit fee discount, even after controlling for the product similarity effect, auditors’ overall technological expertise, and industry specialization. Both an increase in audit quality and a decrease in audit fees occur if a client firm exhibits greater technological similarity to clients of other audit offices within the same audit firm. Our findings suggest that the auditors’ technological proximity knowledge enhances the effectiveness and efficiency of audit work at both the audit firm and audit office levels.

Keywords: Technological Proximity; audit quality; Audit Fees; Auditor Technological Proximity Knowledge

JEL Classification: M41; M49; O30

Suggested Citation:

He, Yue and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Li, Bing and Liu, Zhenbin, Auditor's Technological Proximity Knowledge (December 21, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308782
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies