Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equivalent Units of Production in Unit Costs Calculation for Fair Pricing of Pharmaceuticals: A Scoping Review Protocol

9 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2022

Salem Udoh

Tomas Bata University

Ali Imran

Tomas Bata University in Zlin

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 21, 2022

Abstract

Objective: The objective of this scoping review is to examine extant evidence and escalate conversation towards building a critical mass in literature on equivalent unit of production, unit cost function, continuous process costing and fair pricing in the pharmaceutical industry. The main aim is to clarify concepts and provide direction for subsequent empirical studies.

Introduction: Insufficient consideration has been given in pharmaceutical pricing conversations to underlying unit cost function, equivalent unit of production and fair pricing concepts respectively. Because regardless of pricing orientation, Drury (2021, p.242) asserts that ‘the cost of the product provides the initial approximation of the selling price’.

Inclusion criteria: Studies will be included on equivalent units of production, (process) costing, unit costing, target costing and fair pricing in the pharmaceutical industry respectively as participants and concepts in the context of fair pricing of pharmaceuticals. Secondly, abstract and complete text in English language will also be included. However, studies on these concepts outside the industry will be excluded.

Methods: Searches without time limit will be conducted on Google scholar, Web of Science, and gray literature to optimize the number of relevant articles. Subject headings will include equivalent units/, equivalent production/, process costing/ unit costing/costing practices/fair pricing/and, pharmaceuticals. Reference lists of relevant articles will be further screened. All citations will be imported into the Zotero Reference Manager to remove duplicates. One reviewer will conduct data extraction process, while another will cross-check. Data will be tabulated and accompanied by a narrative summary in line with the study’s objectives.

Keywords: Equivalent units of production, fair pricing, pharmaceuticals, unit cost of production, scoping review, protocol

JEL Classification: I18, M4, M21, L11, L51, L650

Suggested Citation:

Udoh, Salem and Imran, Ali, Equivalent Units of Production in Unit Costs Calculation for Fair Pricing of Pharmaceuticals: A Scoping Review Protocol (December 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4308920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
324,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies