Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from an Inflation-Driven Crisis of Trust

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-06

61 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Ana Mão-de-Ferro

EM Lyon (Ecole de Management de Lyon) - Emlyon Business School

Stefano Ramelli

University of St. Gallen - School of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: December 20, 2022

Abstract

During periods of high inflation, a firm’s ability to protect real cash flows often depends on its trusted relationships with key stakeholders—its social capital. We find that in months following higher inflation, equity investors reward firms with stronger social capital, measured by their corporate social responsibility (CSR) level. This effect, which we document for the recent inflation surge in the United States, is robust across alternative measures of inflation and CSR and is more pronounced among firms with greater customer sensitivity and intangible assets. Analyst forecast revisions confirm that cash-flow considerations drive CSR’s inflation-hedging benefits.

Keywords: CSR, ESG, Inflation, Stock returns, Social capital, Trust, Corporate valuation, Firm value

JEL Classification: G12, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Mão-de-Ferro, Ana and Ramelli, Stefano, The Value of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from an Inflation-Driven Crisis of Trust (December 20, 2022). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4308164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4308164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjo Koskinen , Shuai Yang , Chendi Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjö Koskinen , Chendi Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Amiraslani , Karl V Hami , Henri Lins , Ane Servaes , Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
Peter Andre , Ingar Haaland , Christopher Roth , Johannes Wohlfart
Narratives about the macroeconomy Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
171,534
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies