Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Taxes and the Geography of Fossil Lending

ECB Working Paper No. 2022/2762

69 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Luc Laeven

European Central Bank (ECB); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Alexander A. Popov

European Central Bank (ECB)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

Using data on syndicated loans, we find that the introduction of a carbon tax is associated with an increase in domestic banks’ lending to coal, oil, and gas companies in foreign countries. This effect is particularly pronounced for banks with large prior fossil-lending exposures, suggesting a role for bank specialization. Lending to private companies in foreign markets increases relatively more, which points to an intensification of banks’ incentives to avoid public scrutiny. We also find that banks reallocate a relatively larger share of their fossil loan portfolio to countries with less strict environ-mental regulation and bank supervision.

Keywords: carbon taxes, climate change, cross-border lending

JEL Classification: F3, G15, G21, H23, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Laeven, Luc A. and Popov, Alexander A., Carbon Taxes and the Geography of Fossil Lending (December 1, 2022). ECB Working Paper No. 2022/2762, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4309180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
930
RANK
308,851
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Central Bank Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies