Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Corporate Governance and Integrated Reporting Implementation of Rev. 4.0

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022)

9 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2023

Khalida Utami

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rafrini Amyulianthy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tri Astuti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 22, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the implementation of integrated reporting associated with corporate governance. The research method used is quantitative with a total sample of 20 companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange during the 2018-2020 period and uses a multiple regression analysis tool to test the hypotheses in this study. The results of the study show that corporate governance, which consists of indicators on the size of the board of directors, the number of audit committees and gender diversity, has an effect on the implementation of integrated reporting. Companies that have implemented integrated reporting in their annual reports show good corporate governance, so that governance can improve when companies implement integrated reporting in their annual reports. The results of this study can be used as input for the relevant regulators as a material consideration in making decisions regarding the implementation of the integrated reporting framework in Indonesia.

Keywords: Implementation, Integrated Report, Governance, Value of the Company

Suggested Citation:

Utami, Khalida and Amyulianthy, Rafrini and Astuti, Tri, Good Corporate Governance and Integrated Reporting Implementation of Rev. 4.0 (December 22, 2022). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
RANK
336,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies