Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex Ante Competitive Threats and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from Antitrust Leniency Programs

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4309706

Posted: 22 Dec 2022

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xiaohua Fang

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: August 22, 2021

Abstract

We examine empirically the impact of ex ante competitive threats from potential foreign rivals on bad news hoarding/disclosure decisions. We find that stronger antitrust enforcement around the world causes domestic U.S. firms to exhibit lower levels of stock price crash risk. This is consistent with managers disclosing rather than hoarding bad news in order to deter entry from potential foreign rivals. Our findings are robust to a battery of sensitivity tests including temporal dynamics test, and staggered DiD bias correction methods. Further, cross-sectional analyses show that the negative impact of competitive threats from potential rivals on stock price crash risk is more salient for firms with severe agency problems measured by external market forces, corporate risk-taking and information asymmetry. Overall, our evidence indicates that competitive threats from potential foreign rivals constrains firms’ stock price crash risk, in line with the view that competition serves as an important governance mechanism in curbing agency problems.

Keywords: Competitive threats, crash risk, natural experiment, cross-sectional evidence

JEL Classification: D22, D43, D82, G12, G32, G34, G38, L44

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Fang, Xiaohua, Ex Ante Competitive Threats and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from Antitrust Leniency Programs (August 22, 2021). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4309706, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309706
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies