Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Planning and Profitability on Equity (Empirical Study in the Consumer Goods Industry in Indonesia)

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022)

12 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2023

Nur Sayidah

University of Dr. Soetomo Surabaya

Indi Santika Kumala Putri

University of Dr. Soetomo Surabaya

Aminullah Assagaf

University of Dr. Soetomo Surabaya

Hadi Sugianto

University of Dr. Soetomo Surabaya

Zainal Fatah

University of Dr. Soetomo Surabaya

Date Written: December 22, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to determine the effect of partial and simultaneous tax planning and profitability on equity. Tax planning and profitability are used as independent variables—Equity as a dependent variable. The population in this study is all companies in the consumer goods industry listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange from 2018 to 2021. Sample number 28 consists of 7 companies multiplied by four years of research. A sampling method is purposive sampling. The analysis method used to test hypotheses uses multiple linear regression analysis. The multiple linear regression analysis tests performed on the F test on the third hypothesis obtained an F value of 27,441 and a significance of 0, which means that tax planning and profitability simultaneously affect equity. The result of testing for the first hypothesis showed a t-value of -2.327 and a significance level of 0.028. Based on this result, the conclusion is tax planning partially had a significant adverse effect on equity. The second hypothesis test indicates a t-value of 7.334 and a significance level of 0.00. We can explain that profitability had a significant positive impact on equity.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Profitability, Equity

Suggested Citation:

Sayidah, Nur and Putri, Indi Santika Kumala and Assagaf, Aminullah and Sugianto, Hadi and Fatah, Zainal, The Effect of Tax Planning and Profitability on Equity (Empirical Study in the Consumer Goods Industry in Indonesia) (December 22, 2022). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.5 No.4 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
640,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies