Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Finance and Corporate Green Innovation: Evidence from the Equator Principles

38 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Jia Xu

Central China Normal University; Central China Normal University

Shu Zeng

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, School of Accounting

Jingbo Cui

Duke Kunshan University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 22, 2022

Abstract

Green financing policy plays a critical role in fighting against climate change by providing financial support to corporate’s green transition. Through the lens of the Equator Principles, adopted by financial institutions for managing environmental and social risks in funding projects, this paper examines whether green loans facilitate the innovation direction of corporate toward environmentally friendly technologies. We find that green loans are associated with higher ratios of environmental patents in total patents for firms in the pollution-intensive sectors than those in the non-pollution-intensive sectors. We also document the pivoting governance role of analysts’ attention and gender diversity in board members in pushing corporates with green loans to transit in a sustainable mode.

Keywords: Environmental Innovation, Patent, Green Finance, Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: G23, G30, M14, O30

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Jia and Xu, Jia and Zeng, Shu and Cui, Jingbo, Green Finance and Corporate Green Innovation: Evidence from the Equator Principles (December 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4309159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4309159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
719
RANK
333,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies