Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Corporate ESG Performance: The Role of ESG Materiality in Corporate Financial Performance and Risks

28 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022

Sharon S. Yang

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Jr-Wei Huang

Hubei University of Economics

Hong-Yi Chen

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of material ESG issues on firm performance and risks. Following the guidance of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), this study identifies the materiality ESG score of a firm (SASB ESG Score). The SASB ESG Score and the ESG Disclosure Score are therefore compared in terms of the impact of the financial performance and financial risks. Empirical findings demonstrate that a firm’s SASB ESG Score is positively associated with its financial performance and negatively associated with its financial risks, while the ESG Disclosure Score fails to predict a firm’s financial performance and risks. In addition, the effect of the SASB ESG Score on risk reduction is mainly attributed to the reduction of the firm-specific risk. Moreover, the results of the piecewise regression indicate that only firms with a better rank of SASB ESG Score can obtain better financial performance and lower financial risks. Therefore, to improve financial performance and risk control, firms are suggested to focus on their corresponding material ESG issues rather than the general ESG issues.

Keywords: CSR, ESG Disclosure Score, SASB ESG Score, Material issues, Financial performance, Financial risk

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Sharon S. and Huang, Jr-Wei and Chen, Hong-Yi, Detecting Corporate ESG Performance: The Role of ESG Materiality in Corporate Financial Performance and Risks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4310654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4310654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
RANK
200,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies