Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Reactions to Accounting Measurement

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023

Daniel Tinkelman

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: December 25, 2022

Abstract

Efforts to measure and judge people and companies using accounting metrics set in motion a predictable chain of reactions, and reactions to the reactions. In the first stage, the parties being measured engage in some combination of: lobbying; good faith attempts to meet intended targets; actions (such as earnings management) that meet the letter but not the spirit of the targets; fraud; and revolt. The parties who originally set the metrics observe these reactions, and respond strategically, for example by modifying the metrics or adding enforcement mechanisms. This sparks further reactions by the parties being measured, which leads to the measurers taking further actions. These strategic responses can continue indefinitely.

Anyone proposing using accounting metrics to motivate behavior should anticipate strategic responses to the metrics.

Keywords: strategic reaction to accounting; budgetary slack; earnings management; accounting standard setting

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Tinkelman, Daniel, Strategic Reactions to Accounting Measurement (December 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4311932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4311932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies