Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of a Framework of Key Internal Control and Governance Principles for Robotic Process Automation (RPA)

37 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2022

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Nathan Waddoups

University of Denver

Martin Wagener

University of Duisburg-Essen

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 23, 2022

Abstract

Although robotic process automation (RPA) usage is growing rapidly in accounting, concerns are emerging regarding the internal controls and overall governance structure surrounding RPA. To help address these concerns, we use a design science research approach and work with a Fortune 500 company to develop an RPA governance framework. The framework consists of 4 governance areas and 14 control requirements, which help maximize the benefits and minimize the risks associated with the use of RPA. We validate that the framework is useful and generalizable to many organizations by presenting the framework to and subsequently interviewing and surveying 84 professionals at different organizations, including internal and external auditors, chief audit executives at several multinational corporations, academics, accounting and finance professionals, and other RPA stakeholders. Their feedback suggests the framework is successful in achieving its objectives.

Keywords: Robotic Process Automation (RPA), internal controls, governance, framework

JEL Classification: M40, O30, O32, O33, M40

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Waddoups, Nathan and Wagener, Martin and Wood, David A., Development of a Framework of Key Internal Control and Governance Principles for Robotic Process Automation (RPA) (December 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4311271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4311271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
855
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,046
RANK
65,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies