Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Economic Policy Uncertainty Impact Firms’ Capital Structure Policy? Evidence from Western European Economies

Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 2022

33 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023

Seyed Alireza Athari

Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK); European University of Lefke

Mahboubeh Bahreini

European Leadership University

Date Written: December 26, 2022

Abstract

This study specifically investigates the impact of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on travel and leisure (TL) companies’ debt holdings policy. To the best of our knowledge, there is a momentous gap in exclusively conducting the impact of EPU on the debt holdings policy behavior of Western European firms operating in the TL sector and its sub-sectors namely the airlines, gambling, hotels, recreational services, restaurants and bars, and travel and tourism. In this sector, external financing is strongly needed to finance enormous investments, replace, expand, and modernize tangible and intangible assets. To fill the gap, the present study selects 92 publicly listed TL companies operating in Western Europe’s top tourist destinations, namely, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, and Italy, and performs both the static and dynamic panel data estimation approaches during the 2005-2019 period. The results reveal that the EPU negatively impacts TL firms’ debt holdings, implying that firms tend to decline in debt levels by rising EPU. Consequently, the results highlight that the level of EPU matters and firms’ debt ratios are relatively lower in countries having a higher EPU and vice versa. Besides, the results underscore that the EPU negatively impacts firms’ debt holdings in each sub-sector however the negative effect is most prominent on the debt ratios of the firms, particularly those operating in gambling, hotels, travel and tourism, and also recreational services sub-sectors. The results are robust and have important suggestions for regulatory bodies, policymakers, and firms’ managers.

Keywords: Economic policy uncertainty; Capital structure; Western Europe economies

Suggested Citation:

Athari, Seyed Alireza and Bahreini, Mahboubeh, Does Economic Policy Uncertainty Impact Firms’ Capital Structure Policy? Evidence from Western European Economies (December 26, 2022). Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4312336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4312336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
RANK
718,946
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies