Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Coase Theorem and the Empty Core: Inspecting the Entrails after Four Decades

International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4313015

Posted: 4 Jan 2023

Varouj A. Aivazian

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 27, 2022

Abstract

Ronald Coase pioneered the transaction cost approach to the modern analysis of institutions, contracts, and property rights. We argue that core theory enhances Coase’s transaction cost approach by injecting considerations of coalition formation and stability into the analysis. Analysis of coalitional stability also provides additional insights regarding the nature of transaction costs and the efficiency of institutional arrangements when there are such costs. Overcoming the empty core is potentially an important function of contracts, institutions, and property rights. Empty cores complement transaction costs in rationalizing real-world institutional arrangements. Applications of these ideas to corporate finance and accounting are referenced.

Keywords: Coase Theorem, Institutional Arrangements, Empty Core, Transactions Costs, Farsighted Core

JEL Classification: K00, D02, D62, D71, M00, G00

Suggested Citation:

Aivazian, Varouj A. and Callen, Jeffrey L., The Coase Theorem and the Empty Core: Inspecting the Entrails after Four Decades (December 27, 2022). International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4313015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4313015
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies