Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Equity Financing Choice Under Financial Constraints: Does Corporate Social Responsivity Matter?

32 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Anh Ngo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hong Kim Duong

Old Dominion University

Zuobao Wei

University of Texas at El Paso

Abstract

This study examines the role of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in a firm’s debt and equity financing decisions. We also examine the effects of CSR on the deb-equity choice for financially constrained and non-constrained firms. We find that high CSR firms tend to use more debt financing and less equity financing than low CSR firms. We also find evidence that financial constraints significantly reduce the impact of CSR on a firm’s decisions to use debt or equity financing. Taken together, our results reveal that the effect of CSR on debt-equity choices is more pronounced in financially unconstrained firms and not observed in financially constrained firms.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, pecking order theory, debt and equity choice JEL Classification: G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ngo, Anh and Duong, Hong Kim and Wei, Zuobao, Debt Equity Financing Choice Under Financial Constraints: Does Corporate Social Responsivity Matter?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
RANK
692,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies