Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Education and Corporate Tax Planning: Evidence from Firm-Level Reporting

50 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Hanzhong Shi

Nanjing University

Kaishu Wu

University of Waterloo

Abstract

Taking advantage of a unique financial reporting feature in the Chinese setting, this study examines whether the education level of a firm’s rank-and-file employees is associated with its level of tax planning. We conjecture that highly educated employees should either play an information role and facilitate corporate tax planning or play a monitoring role and restrict it. Using a variety of identification strategies, we provide evidence consistent with the monitoring role of employees in restricting tax avoidance. We find that the main effect is more pronounced when employees have the incentive and ability to “blow the whistle” on financial misreporting and managerial diversion, and there is a substitutional effect between internal and external monitoring. Overall, our study extends an emerging body of literature on the association between employee education and firm-related outcomes (Call et al., 2017), along with identifying another important determinant of corporate tax planning.

Keywords: Employee education, corporate tax planning, Corporate Governance, monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Hanzhong and Wu, Kaishu, Employee Education and Corporate Tax Planning: Evidence from Firm-Level Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314853 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
534,717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies