Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust, Transparency, and Complexity

The Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6384-20

66 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2022 Last revised: 13 May 2023

Richard T. Thakor

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Robert C. Merton

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Harvard Business School - Finance Unit

Date Written: December 29, 2022

Abstract

This paper develops a theory that generates an equilibrium relationship between product complexity, transparency, and trust in firms. Complexity, transparency, and the evolution of trust are all endogenous, and equilibrium transparency is non-monotonic. The least-trusted firms choose the lowest product complexity, remain opaque, and substitute ex ante third-party verification for information disclosure and trust. Firms with intermediate trust levels choose intermediate levels of complexity and transparency through disclosure, with more trusted firms choosing greater complexity and lower transparency. The most-trusted firms choose maximum complexity while remaining opaque, eschewing both verification and disclosure.

Keywords: Trust, Information, Information Disclosure, Transparency, Opacity, Verification

JEL Classification: D21, D25, D82, D83, D84, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Richard T. and Merton, Robert C., Trust, Transparency, and Complexity (December 29, 2022). The Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6384-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,669
RANK
127,186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies