Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Power and Financial Reporting Readability

36 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Jan 2023

Khaled Abdulsalam

Kuwait University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: December 31, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the association between the power of Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) and the readability of financial narrative disclosures in annual reports. As CFOs are ultimately responsible for the quality of annual financial reporting, I expect that by empowering CFOs, they are able to exert more influence on the decision-making process, which includes promoting a higher quality of financial reporting. Consistent with this expectation, I find that firms with powerful CFOs produce more readable narratives in annual reports. I also find that the association between CFO power and readability is more pronounced in firms that have greater career incentives for their CFOs. The results provided by this study are robust to alternative specifications of CFO power, alternative specifications of annual report readability, and endogeneity concerns. Overall, the findings of this study suggest that CFO power matters in terms of improving the readability of corporate disclosures.

Keywords: CFO; CFO Power; 10-K report; Readability

JEL Classification: M12; M40

Suggested Citation:

Abdulsalam, Khaled, CFO Power and Financial Reporting Readability (December 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4315865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4315865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,201
RANK
276,216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies