Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management’s Communication Style when Disclosing Material Weaknesses in Internal Control

34 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Matthew Starliper

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Yao Yu

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: October 8, 2023

Abstract

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management of publicly traded
companies to assess and disclose the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting
(ICFR). Our analysis of 200 actual ICFR reports disclosing material weaknesses in internal control
reveals great variation in terms of 1) whether management uses a more defensive tone and 2)
whether management uses first-person pronouns (e.g., we, us, our). We observe that the most
common communication style in our sample is a defensive version of the “reasonable assurance”
argument combined with the use of first-person pronouns. In an experiment where we vary
management’s communication style with respect to material weakness disclosures, we find that
nonprofessional investors are more willing to invest in a company when management uses a less
defensive version of the “reasonable assurance” argument and does not use first-person pronouns.
Our findings show a sharp contrast between the communication styles management chooses to use
in actual ICFR reports and what we observe experimentally to be the most effective style. These
findings have implications for both management and investor relations professionals in terms of
improving their communication effectiveness and should inform investors with respect to how they
can be influenced by management communication styles

Keywords: defensive communication, first-person pronouns, investor judgment and decision-making, material weakness in internal controls

JEL Classification: M40,M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Starliper, Matthew and Yu, Yao, Management’s Communication Style when Disclosing Material Weaknesses in Internal Control (October 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4316680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4316680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H S Asay , R Libby , K Rennekamp
2018a. Firm performance, reporting goals, and language choices in narrative disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 380 - 398
H S Asay , R Libby , K Rennekamp
Do features that associate managers with a message magnify investors' reactions to narrative disclosures? Accounting, Organizations and Society , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2018
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
W H Baker
Defensiveness in Communication: Its Causes, Effects, and Cures
The Journal of Business Communication , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 33 - 43 Posted: 1980
Load more
1 Citations
Stergios Galanis , Michail Pazarskis , Christos Konstantinidis , Sofia Kourtesi
The role of internal auditors as a tool to boost competitiveness of Greek firms
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 278 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
942
RANK
306,185
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies