Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Corporate Structure: Evidence from Mergers between Parent Companies and Wholly Owned Subsidiaries in Korea

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023

Jiyoon Lee

Yonsei University

Date Written: January 2, 2023

Abstract

I study the effects of taxes on parent{subsidiary structures. To do so, I investigate mergers involving Korean firms during a period in which tax consolidation was not allowed. In particular, I analyze mergers through which a parent company and a wholly owned subsidiary combine into one legal entity (a P-S merger) and thus do not involve cash transfers, changes in ownership structure, or operational synergy. The majority of P-S mergers occur between profitable firms and loss firms, likely leading to tax savings. Merger announcement returns are positively associated with estimated tax savings. Consistent with the loss of the option to bankrupt a poorly performing subsidiary, however, announcement returns are lower when the subsidiary is the loss firm, especially in the absence of a debt guaranty by the parent company. The results overall are consistent with the proposition that tax considerations play a role in shaping parent-subsidiary structures and that investors incorporate these considerations into valuation.

Keywords: Tax, parent-subsidiary, tax avoidance, merger, tax consolidation, bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jiyoon, Taxes and Corporate Structure: Evidence from Mergers between Parent Companies and Wholly Owned Subsidiaries in Korea (January 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4317749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4317749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
RANK
662,989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies