Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Referencing and Capital Market Benefits: Evidence from the Cost of Equity

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Jiao Jing

Jinan University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 22, 2022

Abstract

Customer referencing is a strategy that firms can use to disclose their connections with reputable customers as a means of enhancing their own reputations. We study the capital market benefits of naming reputable nonmajor customers in firms’ financial reports to provide empirical evidence on whether this form of customer referencing has important practical implications. We predict and find that firms enjoy a lower cost of equity when they engage in customer referencing in their financial reports, consistent with the argument that this form of voluntary disclosure increases investor attention and customer certification. In cross-sectional analyses, we predict and find that the benefits of customer referencing are more pronounced for firms that (i) lack major customers or reputable major customers, (ii) name customers whose reputations exceed their own, and (iii) face higher competition. Overall, our study provides evidence that communicating certain inter-organizational connections can generate capital market benefits for disclosing firms.

Keywords: customer referencing, customer reputation, cost of equity, voluntary disclosure, capital market benefits, company reputation

Suggested Citation:

Jing, Jiao and Myers, Linda A. and Ng, Jeffrey and Su, Lixin (Nancy), Customer Referencing and Capital Market Benefits: Evidence from the Cost of Equity (December 22, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4317311
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies