Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Corporate Transparency: A Sri Lankan Case

International Journal of Accountancy (IJA) – Volume 2 Issue 2 – December 2022

25 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023

D. A. W. M. S. P Ratnayake

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Niruja Rajakulanajagam

University of Jaffna - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

The main purpose of the research is to explore the impact of corporate governance on the corporate transparency of public listed companies in Sri Lanka. The content analysis was applied to measure the dependent variable, corporate transparency while independent directors, board size, female directors, dual leadership, cross directorship, audit firm size, related party transaction review committee and remuneration committee were used as the variables of corporate governance. This research study covers 100 public listed companies which have been listed on Colombo Stock Exchange in Sri Lanka representing eight sectors and secondary data were gathered from annual reports published on Colombo Stock Exchange for the period from 2018 to 2020. The data analysis was performed through correlation and regression analysis using EViews software. As per the results of regression analysis, it was shown that there is a significant impact of audit firm size and female directorship on corporate transparency. Distinct from the previous empirical research, corporate transparency was measured using a newly updated transparency and disclosure index based on the most recent corporate governance codes in 2017. The outcome of the study gives an insight into corporate governance and corporate transparency to regulators, policymakers, practitioners, researchers and investors by adding value to the existing literature.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Transparency, Colombo Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Ratnayake, D. A. W. M. S. P and Rajakulanajagam, Niruja, Corporate Governance and Corporate Transparency: A Sri Lankan Case ( 2022). International Journal of Accountancy (IJA) – Volume 2 Issue 2 – December 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4317979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
234,984
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies