Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Homemade Foreign Trading

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-170

62 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2023 Last revised: 1 Feb 2023

Zhiguo He

Stanford University - Knight Management Center

Yuehan Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Xiaoquan Zhu

University of International Business and Economics - School of Banking and Finance

Date Written: January 27, 2023

Abstract

Using cross-border holding data from all custodians in China’s Stock Connect, we provide evidence that Chinese mainland insiders tend to evade the see-through surveillance by round-tripping via the Stock Connect program. After the regulatory reform of Northbound Investor Identification in 2018, the correlation between insider trading and northbound flows decays, and so does the return predictability of northbound flows. The reduction of return predictability is especially pronounced among less prestigious foreign custodians and cross-operating mainland custodians, behind which mainland insiders are more likely to hide. Our analysis sheds light on the role of regulatory cooperation over capital market integration.

Keywords: Cross-border Flows, Insider Trading, Northbound-Southbound, See-through Surveillance, Regulatory Arbitrage

JEL Classification: F38, F65, G11, G14, G15, G28

Suggested Citation:

He, Zhiguo and Wang, Yuehan and Zhu, Xiaoquan, Homemade Foreign Trading (January 27, 2023). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-170, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4318182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4318182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,008
RANK
129,363
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies