Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Reporting to the Board of Directors: Comparison of Norwegian Power Companies and Banks

The Journal of Energy Markets, Volume 5, Number 3, Fall 2012

21 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023

Terje Berg

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) - NTNU Business School

Sjur Westgaard

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) - Department of Industrial Economics and Technology

Date Written: September 5, 2012

Abstract

This paper considers the functions of risk reporting to the board of directors among a sample of Norwegian power companies and banks. The concept of enterprise risk management is being promoted by legislators and is an emerging topic among practitioners and in the academic literature. There exist few studies of what businesses actually do, and this paper sheds light on existing practice and acts as a point of departure for further surveys. It compares two industries where legislative requirements differ, but it finds the same pattern: the ideals of enterprise risk management are being not implemented in practice.

Keywords: Risk reporting, ERM, Strategy, Compliance, Power companies, Banks

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Berg, Terje and Westgaard, Sjur, Risk Reporting to the Board of Directors: Comparison of Norwegian Power Companies and Banks (September 5, 2012). The Journal of Energy Markets, Volume 5, Number 3, Fall 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4318371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4318371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies