Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Competition and Formation of Zombie Firms: Evidence from Banking Deregulation in China

67 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023 Last revised: 9 Jan 2025

Xuchao Li

Wuhan University - Economics and Management School

Xiang Shao

Fudan University - School of Management

Guangjun Shen

Sun Yat-sen University; Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Jingxian Zou

Renmin University of China

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 4, 2023

Abstract

Can bank competition help to attenuate the prevalence of zombie firms? Motivated by a stylized model, this paper studies the effect of bank competition on the formation of zombie firms in two stages: the formation of distressed firms and distressed firms obtaining zombie lending. Using China's 2009 bank entry deregulation as a quasi-natural experiment, the paper finds that bank competition lowers the probability of the formation of distressed firms, while it increases the probability of distressed firms obtaining zombie lending. Overall, bank competition decreases the formation of zombie firms. In addition, the findings show that a higher ex ante proportion of bad loans and higher probability of bad loan recovery lead to a higher probability of distressed firms receiving zombie lending. Both factors encourage banks to sustain lending to distressed firms to keep them alive and to gamble that those firms may recover in the future.

Keywords: zombie firms, bank competition, banking deregulation, zombie lending

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xuchao and Shao, Xiang and Shen, Guangjun and Zou, Jingxian, Bank Competition and Formation of Zombie Firms: Evidence from Banking Deregulation in China (January 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4318097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4318097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
V V Acharya , M Crosignani , T Eisert , S Steffen
Zombie Lending: Theoretical, International and Historical Perspectives
NBER Working Paper w29904 Posted: 2022
V V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Whatever It Takes: The Real Effects of Unconventional Monetary Policy
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 9 , p. 3366 - 3411 Posted: 2019
B Albuquerque , R Iyer
The Rise of the Walking Dead: Zombie Firms Around the World
IMF Working Papers , volume 23 , issue 125 Posted: 2023
J Bai , D Carvalho , G M Phillips
The Impact of Bank Credit on Labor Reallocation and Aggregate Industry Productivity
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 6 , p. 2787 - 2836 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
350,629
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies