Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Product Market Competition Influence Annual Report Readability?

Accounting and Business Research (Forthcoming)

50 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2023

Dewan Rahman

University of Queensland - Business School

Muhammad Kabir

Asper School of Business, University of Manitoba

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Barry R. Oliver

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 7, 2023

Abstract

We study product market competition’s influence on annual report readability. As competition increases in an industry, our findings show that firms reduce the readability of their annual reports. We further document that the impact of competition on annual report readability is stronger for research and development (R&D)-intensive firms, for firms that have a higher level of trade secrecy (i.e., proprietary information), and for firms with higher levels of CEO performance-based incentives. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of the proprietary cost effect of competition on annual report readability.

Keywords: Product market competition, Annual report readability, 10-K annual reports, Tariff rates

JEL Classification: D4, G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Dewan and Kabir, Muhammad and Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Oliver, Barry Ross, Does Product Market Competition Influence Annual Report Readability? (January 7, 2023). Accounting and Business Research (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
RANK
167,622
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies