Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Stick or the Carrot? The Role of Regulation and Liquidity in Activist Short-Termism

77 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023 Last revised: 29 Apr 2025

Adrian Aycan Corum

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

I study a model of activist short-termism, where the activist can sell his stake in the target before the impact of his intervention is realized. Changes in liquidity or policies that make activists' exit harder can increase firm value if there is only moral hazard (where activist's intervention creates more value if he exerts effort) or only adverse selection (where some interventions destroy value while others create value). However, these changes destroy total firm value when both moral hazard and adverse selection are present. Moreover, even policies that reward long-termism (e.g., loyalty shares or lower long-term capital gains taxes) can destroy total firm value, but with a lower likelihood. The reason behind these implications is that when the moral hazard problem is binding, a higher number of value-destroying activists results in a higher probability of effort by the value-creating activists, and as a result of this higher effort, average firm value strictly increases. The model implies the optimality of value destruction in settings with other types of blockholders who are subject to short-termism as well, such as venture capitalists and entrepreneurs.

Keywords: Blockholder, Liquidity, Incentives, Myopia, Shareholder Activism, Short-Termism

JEL Classification: C70, D82, G23, G24, G32, G34, L26

Suggested Citation:

Corum, Adrian Aycan, The Stick or the Carrot? The Role of Regulation and Liquidity in Activist Short-Termism (April 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4319599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Anat R Admati , Paul P ‡eiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2245 - 2285 Posted: 2009
Anat R Admati , Josef Paul P ‡eiderer , Zechner
Large shareholder activism and …nancial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
Philippe Aghion , Patrick Bolton , Jean Tirole
Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity versus Incentives
Review of Finance , volume 8 , p. 327 - 353 Posted: 2004
Kerry Back , Pierre Collin-Dufresne , Tao Li , Alexander Ljungqvist
Activism, strategic trading, and liquidity , volume 86 , p. 1431 - 1463 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
517,938
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies