Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overlapping Insiders and the Method of Payment in Acquisitions: New Tests and Evidence on Adverse Selection

British Accounting Review, Vol. 56,  No. 6, pp. 101321, 2024

59 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023 Last revised: 23 Oct 2024

Varun Jindal

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Rama Seth

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: December 29, 2022

Abstract

Exploiting a unique setting of overlapping insiders between acquirers and targets in India, we examine how information asymmetry between the transacting parties influences the returns to acquiring firms’ shareholders as well as the method of payment. Using a novel dataset, we find that cash-financed deals generate greater (no significantly different) value for acquiring firms’ shareholders relative to stock-financed ones when insiders are non-overlapping (overlapping) between acquiring and target firms. Further, stock-financed deals with overlapping insiders outperform those without them. These results indicate that the adverse selection effect of stock issues in stock-financed acquisitions with asymmetric information between the transacting parties is the key reason behind the underperformance of stock-financed deals. We also find that acquisitions with overlapping insiders on both sides of the deal have a significantly higher incidence of stock-financing than those with non-overlapping insiders. However, the positive effect of the presence of overlapping insiders on the propensity of acquisition financing with stock becomes weaker when acquiring and target firms are in the same industry. These results suggest that the effect of a particular channel of information asymmetry reduction on the method of payment is greatest in the absence of other channels. Our results are robust to several checks.

Keywords: Adverse Selection, Information Asymmetry, Mergers and Acquisitions, Method of Payment, Overlapping Insiders

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G34, D82

Suggested Citation:

Jindal, Varun and Seth, Rama, Overlapping Insiders and the Method of Payment in Acquisitions: New Tests and Evidence on Adverse Selection (December 29, 2022). British Accounting Review, Vol. 56,  No. 6, pp. 101321, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4319035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
C Aghamolla , N Li
Debt contract enforcement and conservatism: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1383 - 1416 Posted: 2018
M E Akbulut
Do overvaluation-driven stock acquisitions really benefit acquirer shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 1025 - 1055 Posted: 2013
N Aktas , E Croci , S A Simsir
Corporate governance and takeover outcomes
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 242 - 252 Posted: 2016
Y Amihud , B Lev , N G Travlos
Corporate control and the choice of investment financing: The case of corporate acquisitions
Journal of Finance , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 603 - 616 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,098
RANK
556,453
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies