Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Efficacy and Entrepreneurial Performance of Start-Ups

IZA Discussion Paper No. 15848

43 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Marco Caliendo

University of Potsdam; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Alexander Kritikos

Europa-Universitaet Viadrina - Fakultat fur Wirtschaftswissenschaften; German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Daniel Rodriguez

University of Potsdam

Claudia Stier

University of Potsdam

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Self-efficacy reflects the self-belief that one can persistently perform difficult and novel tasks while coping with adversity. As such beliefs reflect how individuals behave, think, and act, they are key for successful entrepreneurial activities. While existing literature mainly analyzes the influence of the task-related construct of entrepreneurial self-efficacy, we take a different perspective and investigate, based on a representative sample of 1,405 German business founders, how the personality characteristic of generalized self-efficacy influences start-up performance as measured by a broad set of business outcomes up to 19 months after business creation. Outcomes include start-up survival and entrepreneurial income, as well as growthoriented outcomes such as job creation and innovation. We find statistically significant and economically important positive effects of high scores of self-efficacy on start-up survival and entrepreneurial income, which become even stronger when focusing on the growth-oriented outcome of innovation. Furthermore, we observe that generalized self-efficacy is similarly distributed between female and male business founders, with effects being partly stronger for female entrepreneurs. Our findings are important for policy instruments that are meant to support firm growth by facilitating the design of more target-oriented offers for training, coaching, and entrepreneurial incubators.

Keywords: entrepreneurship, firm performance, general self-efficacy, survival, job creation, innovation

JEL Classification: L26, M13, D91

Suggested Citation:

Caliendo, Marco and Kritikos, Alexander S. and Rodriguez, Daniel and Stier, Claudia, Self-Efficacy and Entrepreneurial Performance of Start-Ups. IZA Discussion Paper No. 15848, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
B Ahlin , M Drnovšek , R D Hisrich
Entrepreneurs' creativity and firm innovation: the moderating role of entrepreneurial self-e cacy
Small Business Economics , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 117 Posted: 2014
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
P Andersson , E Wadensjö
Do the unemployed become successful entrepreneurs?
International Journal of Manpower , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 604 - 626 Posted: 2007
T Astebro , J Chen
The entrepreneurial earnings puzzle: Mismeasurement or real
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 29 , p. 88 - 105 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
RANK
242,713
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies