Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Real Earnings Smoothing on Corporate Labour Investment

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2023 Last revised: 29 Jan 2023

Zhangfan Cao

University of Nottingham, Ningbo - University of Nottingham Ningbo China

Bill Rees

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance

Zhifang Zhang

Warwick Business School

Date Written: January 7, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of real earnings smoothing on labour investment efficiency. Our results show that real earnings smoothing is significantly associated with higher labour investment efficiency, supporting the private information signalling view of earnings smoothing. We also fine information asymmetry as a plausible channel through which real earnings smoothing improves labour investment efficiency. Further analyses find that the positive impact of real earnings smoothing on labour investment efficiency is primarily driven by the informational component rather than the garbling component of earnings smoothness, and is more pronounced for financially constrained firms with equity-based financing incentives and loss-making firms. Our paper advances the understanding of corporate labour investment and the benefits of real earnings smoothing.

Keywords: Real earnings smoothing, labour investment efficiency, earnings management

JEL Classification: G31, J63, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Zhangfan and Rees, William and Zhang, Zhifang, The Effect of Real Earnings Smoothing on Corporate Labour Investment (January 7, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4320061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
407,330
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies