Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers for the Maturity of Integrated Governance in Organizations – An Empirical Investigation

34 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Anne Christine d'Arcy

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: January 9, 2023

Abstract

This paper sheds light on the maturity levels of integrated governance and their drivers. Integrated governance incorporates and optimizes all assurance functions in an organization. This supports an effective risk control environment and the integrity of information used by management, the governing body and its committees. A lack of coordination of an organization’s assurance functions might cause challenges such as siloed risk functions, gaps in risk coverage, and redundant controls. Research suggests that no organization has attained a mature level of integrated governance so far. We use a unique and proprietary data set from 148 companies reporting about their activities to coordinate and align their separated assurance functions. We identify important drivers for the maturity of integrated governance such as the awareness of integrated governance within the organization, the implementation of the Three Lines (of Defense) Model, and the maturity levels of subsystems such as risk management and the internal control system.

Keywords: Integrated Governance Maturity, Three Lines (of Defense) Model, Assurance Services, Enterprise Risk Management

JEL Classification: M40, M4

Suggested Citation:

d'Arcy, Anne and Eulerich, Marc, Drivers for the Maturity of Integrated Governance in Organizations – An Empirical Investigation (January 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4320715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4320715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
487,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies