Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk and Deployment of Corporate Resources to Working Capital

14 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Muhammad Farooq Ahmad

SKEMA Business School – Université Côte d'Azur

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Ettore Croci

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Date Written: December 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether and to what extent exposure to climate risk affects the deployment of corporate resources to working capital. Using a large sample of listed US firms, we find that exposure to climate risk is negatively associated with working capital. This effect is accentuated in carbon-intensive industries and firms facing financial difficulties. These findings suggest that climate risk pressures firms to release unnecessary resources allocated to working capital, a result consistent with the disciplinary channel.

Keywords: Climate risk, working capital, carbon intensity, financial difficulty

JEL Classification: G30, G31, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Muhammad Farooq and Aktas, Nihat and Croci, Ettore, Climate Risk and Deployment of Corporate Resources to Working Capital (December 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4321694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
RANK
432,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies