Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relaxed Financial Constraints and Corporate Social Responsibility

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Najah Attig

Dalhousie University; Dalhousie University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 10, 2023

Abstract

This study fills an important gap in the literature by providing causal evidence of the impact of relaxing financial constraints on corporate social responsibility (CSR). To isolate this causal link, we examine the enactment of antirecharacterization laws in some U.S. states, an exogenous shock that has strengthened creditor rights and eased financial constraints of the treated firms. Our difference-in-difference analysis suggests that relaxing financial constraints leads to higher CSR. This evidence is more pronounced in financially constrained firms, firms with more analyst dispersion and increased volatility of cash flows. We also find that the most impacted firms are those with increased post-shock debt financing. In sum, our evidence suggests that easing access to external finance drives corporate goodness, in particular in firms that value external financing.

Suggested Citation:

Attig, Najah, Relaxed Financial Constraints and Corporate Social Responsibility (January 10, 2023). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4321257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
RANK
204,782
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies