Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Identity Concealing and Insider Trading Profitability: Evidence from China

Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Wan Huang

Sichuan University

Yufan Bai

Southwest University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: January 10, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates whether insiders exploit the information advantage arising from customer identity concealing to profit from their shares selling. We examine this issue in the context of China given its voluntary nature of customer information disclosure. We find that the profitability of insider selling is significantly stronger in firms concealing customer identity relative to disclosing it, especially when the customer identity is more informative. We also find evidence that the significant trading profitability of both insiders themselves and their relatives, as well as both core executives and general executives. Furthermore, we find the results are weaker for firms with more effective internal monitoring, and for firms with more sophisticated market participants following, but are stronger for firms with more earnings disclosure manipulations, which are consistent with the hypothesis that insiders opportunistically trade on customer-related private information rather than unintentionally selling. In additional testing, we find insiders deliberately conceal the customer identity in response to their personal trading incentives, indicating that insiders may increase their information advantage through strategically customer information disclosure. Overall, our research sheds light on the black box of specific information advantage source of insider trading from the perspective of supply chain and the insider trading incentives behind firms’ concealment of customers’ identities.

Keywords: Insider trading; Customer identity concealing; Information asymmetry; Customer information disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Wan and Bai, Yufan, Customer Identity Concealing and Insider Trading Profitability: Evidence from China (January 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321314
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies