Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Activist Directors: Determinants and Consequences

55 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Ian D. Gow

Unaffiliated Author

Sa-Pyung Sean Shin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

Date Written: December 29, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines determinants and consequences of hedge fund activism, focusing on activist directors, i.e., directors appointed in response to activist demands. Using a sample of 3,259 activism events from 2004 to 2016, we identify 1,623 activist directors. Compared to other newly appointed directors, these activist directors tend to be younger, more likely to have finance and accounting skills, and less likely to be female. Activists remain as shareholders longer when they have board representation, with the holding period consistent with conventional notions of “long-term” institutional investors. We find that the likelihood of acquiring board representation is associated with weaker market performance or lower payout ratios. Following the appointment of an activist director, we find evidence of increased divestiture, decreased acquisition activity, higher CEO turnover, increased leverage, higher payouts, and reduced investment. Our analysis of data on activists’ stated demands also shows that activist directors are effective in helping activists achieve their goals, consistent with the notion that board representation is an important mechanism for activists to bring about desired changes. Finally, we find positive abnormal returns of 1% when an activist director is appointed and a 3.2%-point increase in return on assets over the subsequent five years with an activist-affiliated director.

Suggested Citation:

Gow, Ian D. and Shin, Sa-Pyung Sean and Srinivasan, Suraj, Activist Directors: Determinants and Consequences (December 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4321778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
168,604
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies