Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance at Trail Guide Financial (a)

Darden Case No. UVA-S-0399

5 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023 Last revised: 3 Feb 2023

Toni Irving

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Aldo Sesia

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

In this disguised field-based case, Trail Guide Financial (TGF) CFO Tasha Maxwell was examining the earnings for year ended March 31, 2020. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing market drop, the firm suffered significant losses right at the end of its fiscal year. All three of the firm's divisions—investment management, advisory services, and capital markets—had less than stellar fiscal results. Yet the capital markets compensation increased on a year-over-year basis. How could one group receive superior compensation while the firm, and shareholders, as a whole suffered? Maxwell dug deeper to understand how the financial services industry compensated employees involved in capital markets sales and trading. She was concerned that certain segments were incentivized to make deals—to bring in revenue—without regard to the impact on the firm's bottom line.To put an even finer point on the issue, while the capital market's bond business was losing money, the firm's somewhat new CEO, Victor Nicoli, was collecting a seven-figure income from three sources: a percentage of the firm's annual pretax income; a percentage of the capital markets division's annual pretax income; and sales credit (i.e., commission) on sales of bonds, which unlike the first two the proceeds were distributed every two weeks. Maxwell and general counsel and chief compliance officer Jake Tyson both see an issue regarding a misalignment of the CEO's compensation. In the A case, Maxwell must decide whether to bring up the situation to executive chairman Adam Becker. The B case reveals the conversation between Maxwell and Becker and his decision to address the issue.

Excerpt

UVA-S-0399

Rev. Feb. 2, 2023

Governance at Trail Guide Financial (A)

Tasha Maxwell was sitting in her 27th-floor office overlooking the Denver skyline, reviewing the financials for Trail Guide Financial (TGF) where she had been CFO for just over five months. The private company, founded in 1935, employed 480 individuals, had annual revenues of $400 million, and operated much like a family office. The chairman, Adam Becker, had been at the firm for 48 years and most of senior management had tenures of 20 to 30 years, including the founder's son who led wealth management. By comparison, Maxwell's institutional knowledge was nascent. However, she was trained in accounting and had a significant tenure in finance and accounting at firms like Cargill, Janus, and PWC, which meant her attention to detail and high EQ would provide the ideal background to quickly fill the gap.

. . .

Keywords: incentives, alignment, annual review, reputational damage, trust, managing up, shareholder interest

Suggested Citation:

Irving, Toni and Sesia, Aldo, Governance at Trail Guide Financial (a). Darden Case No. UVA-S-0399, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4321094
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies