Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation Between Corporate Social Performance and Financial Reporting Bias

Journal of Accounting and Finance 22 (2), 125-137, 2022

12 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2023

Steven Harrast

Central Michigan University - School of Accounting

James Mattingly

University of Northern Iowa - Department of Management

Lori Olsen

Central Michigan University

Yan (Tricia) Sun

Central Michigan University - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

Research provides mixed evidence for the relation between discretionary accruals and corporate social performance. Because accruals reverse, a single year’s observation may not represent the firm’s overall discretion. Yet the literature does not consider the reversing nature of accruals, nor does it consider the articulation between the income statement and balance sheet. The current study considers both and examines the relation between a firm’s cumulative earnings management and its corporate social performance. As earnings are managed upwards (downwards) this discretion in net income is also recognized in the balance sheet as higher (lower) net asset values. Ceteris paribus, lower net asset values represent a form of slack. Consistent with expectations, evidence shows higher corporate social performance strengths for firms that have a greater cumulative negative bias in earnings recognition.

Keywords: earnings management, financial slack, corporate social performance

Suggested Citation:

Harrast, Steven and Mattingly, James and Olsen, Lori and Sun, Yan (Tricia), The Relation Between Corporate Social Performance and Financial Reporting Bias (January 10, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Finance 22 (2), 125-137, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
588,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies