Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do companies that follow corporate sustainability responsibility (CSR) practices achieve higher stock valuations than firms that do not practice CSR?

Proceedings of The Twelfth International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship

13 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023

Dale Herndon

Georgia State University

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

This paper is a critically appraised topic (CAT) study examining if companies that follow corporate sustainability responsibility (CSR) practices achieve higher stock valuations than firms that do not practice CSR. The expectations of companies’ responsibility to their stakeholders and society continue to expand. Yet, those involved often misunderstand or question the benefits of CSR activities, especially regarding how it impacts the firm’s stock price. This study examines five empirical studies identified through a structured search strategy using EBSCO and Web of Science. The study corresponds to the years 2010 through 2022. The five studies revealed that companies that practice CSR do not experience an increase in stock price.

However, there are other reasons for following CSR, and the research uncovered ways for firms to capitalize on their CSR efforts.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, stock price, share price, shareholder value, stakeholder value

Suggested Citation:

Herndon, Dale, Do companies that follow corporate sustainability responsibility (CSR) practices achieve higher stock valuations than firms that do not practice CSR? (January 11, 2023). Proceedings of The Twelfth International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
422,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies