Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Culture: How Passion, Trust, and Ethical Leadership Impact Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Outcomes

Proceedings of The Twelfth International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship

29 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023

Ashley Gill

University of Missouri at Saint Louis

Rae Moss

University of Missouri at Saint Louis

David Beverly

University of Missouri at Saint Louis

Tonya Thepthongsay

University of Missouri at Saint Louis

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

Our research explores how managers in the waste management industry view their ability to impact the achievement of corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) goals. The industry is heavily regulated, and external stakeholders critically evaluate organizations’ actions to handle waste streams. Organizations must also ensure profitability for their shareholders. Underscoring these targeted goals is the ever-growing focus of corporate responsibility. Our research included interviews with managers at organizations deemed “positive institutions” with ISO 14001 Environmental Management certification. Participants stated they felt empowered to impact organizational goals due to a culture of trust and responsibility and indicated that accountability and communication contribute to achieving ESG goals. Participants also revealed that internal perceptions of the value and importance of their tasks created a strong sense of responsibility, resulting in feelings of empowerment. Findings suggest organizations may benefit from building a culture of trust and empowering employees to help achieve organizational ESG goals. Communicating goals and ensuring that workers realize the value of their contributions may help organizations achieve ESG goals and build a more robust, positive work environment.

Keywords: positive institutions, ESG, CSR, waste management

Suggested Citation:

Gill, Ashley and Moss, Rae and Beverly, David and Thepthongsay, Tonya, The Power of Culture: How Passion, Trust, and Ethical Leadership Impact Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Outcomes (January 11, 2023). Proceedings of The Twelfth International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
751
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,965
RANK
77,448
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies