Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Putting Cryptocurrency in Its Place: The Case for Why ESG Funds Should Exclude Cryptocurrency-Exposed Companies

Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2023

28 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023 Last revised: 19 Apr 2024

Michael Conklin

Texas A&M University School of Law

Jason Malone

Virginia Tech University

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

Recent converging events have created a potential turning point as to both the future of ESG investing and the mitigation of harm from cryptocurrencies. Key investing demographics have shown an increasing interest in ESG investments. Legislators have demonstrated an interest in regulations for both cryptocurrencies and ESG funds, which has sparked a powerful lobbying effort from cryptocurrency advocates. States such as Florida, Louisiana, and West Virginia have divested from all ESG funds. Newly-elected legislators have vowed to investigate ESG funds, attacking them as “a cancer within the U.S. economy.” We are at a potential point of no return regarding environmental action, of which cryptocurrencies pose a great threat. Finally, the legitimacy of ESG investing criteria has been called into question by recent, seemingly inconsistent decisions such as excluding Tesla and allowing Exxon Mobile.

Among this backdrop, this first-of-its-kind Article provides a much-needed assessment of the harms and benefits of cryptocurrencies. Societal harms include the environment; facilitation of illegal transactions; the diversion away from traditional stocks and bonds, which produce positive externalities; and the harm from providing an alternative to those who hold the U.S. dollar internationally. And properly understood, the alleged societal benefits of cryptocurrencies are highly exaggerated. These include protections from oppressive regimes, investment portfolio diversification, currency conversion fee avoidance, and ability to scale for consumer transactions. An honest weighing of these factors points conclusively to the harms far outweighing the benefits. Therefore, this Article concludes that ESG funds should exclude cryptocurrency-exposed companies. Inaction on this matter would be inconsistent with the stated goal of ESG investment funds. Fortunately, this standard would be relatively simple to implement, and relatively easy for businesses to comply with, therefore maximizing positive change. The novel framework provided in this Article is applicable to a broad range of applications regarding ESG determinations specifically and ethical considerations more broadly. Consequently, this Article will likely serve as a valuable catalyst for future scholarship into this and related areas.

Suggested Citation:

Conklin, Michael and Malone, Jason, Putting Cryptocurrency in Its Place: The Case for Why ESG Funds Should Exclude Cryptocurrency-Exposed Companies (January 1, 2023). Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4323993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Id
Id
Id
For Bitcoin, which hit its highest market cap on November 9, 2021, see Bitcoin's Market Capitalization History (2013-2023, $ Billion) Posted: 2023-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
119,160
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies