Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Inventory Holding Decisions in Response to Natural Disasters

KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series No. 2023-002

50 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2023 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Seunghyun Cho

Kyungpook National University - School of Business Administration; KAIST College of Business

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Felipe Bastos G. Silva

Cornerstone Research, Inc. - Boston Office

Choong-Yuel Yoo

KAIST College of Business

Date Written: January 9, 2023

Abstract

We study how firms’ inventory holdings are affected by natural disasters. Building on the premise that
managers often make decisions in line with the availability heuristic, we investigate whether managers
increase inventory holdings in response to heightened disaster-risk perceptions and the need to hedge
against inventory shortages. Through a battery of tests, we show that the occurrence of disasters in
neighboring counties triggers inventory stockpiling, an effect that is unlikely to be driven by the real
disaster disruptions. Our results also indicate that inventory stockpiling is likely inconsistent with a
rational expectations equilibrium. Collectively, our results highlight another undesirable consequence
of natural disasters and warn about supply chain implications due to increased climate ambiguity.

JEL Classification: G31, G41, M21, M11, M41, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Seunghyun and Jung, Boochun and Silva, Felipe Bastos G. and Yoo, Choong-Yuel, Managers’ Inventory Holding Decisions in Response to Natural Disasters (January 9, 2023). KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series No. 2023-002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4323434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
V V Acharya , H Almeida , Y Amihud , P Liu
Corporate Resiliency and the Choice Between Financial and Operational Hedging
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2025
V V Acharya , T Johnson , S Sundaresan , T Tomunen
Is Physical Climate Risk Priced? Evidence from Regional Variation in Exposure to Heat Stress Posted: 2022
J M Addoum , D T Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature Shocks and Establishment Sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
RANK
206,108
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies