Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The concept of materiality in sustainability reporting: From essential contestation to research opportunities

44 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Josua Oll

University of Oldenburg; Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg

Theresa Spandel

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Frank Schiemann

University of Bamberg

Janna Akkermann

University of Oldenburg - Department of Business Administration, Economics and Law

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

Materiality is a key principle of corporate reporting. However, with developments toward more sustainability-related disclosure standards and regulations, fundamentally different definitions of and approaches to materiality have emerged among central standard-setting institutions and researchers. The current state of conceptual pluralism gives rise to the critical question of whether a unified understanding of materiality is possible. To address this question, we systematically review and examine the conceptualizations of materiality in sustainability disclosure research and practice, utilizing the analytical framework of essentially contested concepts. Our analysis reveals that the prevailing lack of consensus surrounding materiality is grounded in the concept’s essential contestation and not in conceptual confusion. We thus provide strong support for the assertion that conceptual plurality can be projected as materiality’s most probable future. Based on these findings, we elucidate two overarching—although not mutually exclusive—research directions. Specifically, we call for future research that explicitly embraces the concept’s plural character by investigating the similarities and differences between materiality conceptions in sustainability disclosures. Furthermore, we call for more interdisciplinary research on the concept of materiality to support evidence-based policymaking and the promotion of sustainable development. For both research avenues, we offer exemplary research questions following the established distinctions between the measurement, output, outcome, and frame conditions in the context of (sustainability) disclosure research.

Keywords: materiality, sustainability disclosures, essentially contested concepts, systematic literature review

Suggested Citation:

Oll, Josua and Spandel, Theresa and Schiemann, Frank and Akkermann, Janna, The concept of materiality in sustainability reporting: From essential contestation to research opportunities (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4323836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
S Abhayawansa
Swimming against the tide: back to single materiality for sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management & Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1361 - 1385 Posted: 2022
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
H Afolabi , R Ram , G Rimmel
Influence and behaviour of the new standard setters in the sustainability reporting arena: implications for the Global Reporting Initiative's current position
Sustainability Accounting, Management & Policy Journal , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 743 - 775 Posted: 2023
R Aprile , D Alexander , F Doni
Enhancing the materiality principle in integrated reporting by adopting the General Systems Theory
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental Management , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 2219 - 2233 Posted: 2023
Load more
2 Citations
Kun Tracy Wang , Yue Wu
Corporate social responsibility reporting and investment: Evidence from mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 51 , issue 7-8 , p. 1893 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Josef Baumüller , Michaela-Maria Schaffhauser-Linzatti , Karina Sopp
An Agenda for Sustainable Development Research
, p. 635 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
763
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,483
RANK
75,708
2 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies