Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Characteristics and Real Earnings Management

European Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

47 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Gianluca Ginesti

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions - University of Naples

Alessandra Allini

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the characteristics of chief financial officers (CFOs) are associated with real earnings management (REM). Using hand-collected data on CFOs’ characteristics, we find that female CFOs and highly visible CFOs are associated with lower levels of REM, while CFOs with an MBA or with an accounting background are associated with higher levels of REM. Our analyses also reveal that the combination of CFOs’ characteristics is important for understanding the association between CFO profiles and REM. Overall, this study identifies the potential profiles of CFOs who are more likely to implement business strategies aimed at managing earnings.

Keywords: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Individual Characteristics, CFO Visibility, Combined Personal Characteristics, European Listed Companies, Real Earnings Management.

JEL Classification: M12, M41, C33

Suggested Citation:

Campa, Domenico and Ginesti, Gianluca and Allini, Alessandra, CFO Characteristics and Real Earnings Management (January 13, 2023). European Accounting Review (Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
580
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
RANK
107,760
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies