Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does China’s Emission Trading Scheme Affect Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

41 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2023

Baoju Chu

Wuhan University

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Diandian Ma

University of Auckland Business School

Tianju Wang

University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: January 10, 2023

Abstract

The pilot carbon emission trading schemes (ETSs) of China were created to combat climate change in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner, and their potential impact on regulated firms has drawn increasing attention. This study is conducted to provide empirical evidence on the effect of China’s pilot ETSs on firm-level financial performance during the period from 2008 to 2017. The empirical results show that the ETS pilots have a positive impact on firms’ profitability and value, and a negative impact on operational costs. We also find that the ETS pilots improve total factor productivity (TFP) but that changes in technology have an indirect suppressing effect on the relation between the ETS and short-term financial performance, providing support for the weak version of the Porter Hypothesis. Further, we show that the carbon emission price has a negative impact on firms’ accounting-based performance but increases firms’ market value. Finally, we find evidence that, in contrast to state-owned enterprises (SOEs), non-SOEs do not experience significant improvements in their financial performance, led by the ETS pilots. Our findings have policy implications for firms’ sustainable development and the transition to a low-carbon economy.

Keywords: Emission trading scheme; Corporate financial performance; Carbon emission; China

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Baoju and Dong, Yizhe and Ma, Diandian and Wang, Tianju, Does China’s Emission Trading Scheme Affect Corporate Financial Performance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (January 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
495,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies