Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Incentives and Corporate Sustainability: Evidence from China

59 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Olga Kopyrina

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Zhanyu Ying

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: January 15, 2023

Abstract

This research studies the effect of the Accelerated Depreciation Policy (ADP) on the corporate sustainability of Chinese A-share firms between 2012 and 2017. We employ difference-indifferences estimation and reveal that the ADP has a significant positive effect on corporate sustainability, particularly regarding employment, remuneration, and stakeholder rights. The effect is mostly attributed to the increases in total factor productivity and short-term leverage, with a lesser role played by workforce skill structure upgrades. Consistently, this effect is particularly prominent in firms with higher visibility and labor intensity, lower probability of obtaining long-term bank loans, and firms that are not state-controlled or politically connected. Our findings demonstrate that tax policy is vital in sustainability-related corporate decision-making.

Keywords: investment incentives, accelerated depreciation policy, corporate sustainability

JEL Classification: G31, G41, H25, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kopyrina, Olga and Wu, Kai and Ying, Zhanyu, Investment Incentives and Corporate Sustainability: Evidence from China (January 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: The effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
A K Aldohni
Loan sharks v. short-term lenders: How do the law and regulators draw the line?
Journal of Law and Society , volume 40 , p. 420 - 449 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J A Aragón-Correa , S Sharma
A contingent resource-based view of proactive corporate environmental strategy
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
935
RANK
487,089
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies