Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Falling Roe and Relocation of Skilled Women

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2023 Last revised: 16 Apr 2025

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Michael Shen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Rui SHI

National University of Singapore - NUS Business School

Jean (Jieyin) Zeng

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: September 25, 2023

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of abortion restrictions on the mobility of 13.5 million skilled women across various occupations in the United States. Exploiting the state-level adoption of Targeted Regulation of Abortion Providers (TRAP) laws that restrict women’s access to abortion, we find that skilled women with a tendency to move exhibit a greater propensity to relocate to states without TRAP laws after their previous state adopts these laws. This pattern cannot be explained by the costs of abortion or the likelihood of unwanted pregnancy. Instead, it is more pronounced among women in areas with more liberal political ideologies and weaker religious attachments, suggesting a novel phenomenon of ideology-driven labor mobility. We further utilize the audit industry as a specific setting to shed light on the implications for job performance. We find that the relocation of female auditors leads to a higher turnover rate and a net loss of human capital at local audit offices, thereby impairing the local office’s audit quality.

Keywords: TRAP Laws; Abortion Policy; Skilled Women; Labor Mobility; Political Ideology; Auditors.

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yupeng and Shen, Michael and SHI, Rui and Zeng, Jean, The Falling Roe and Relocation of Skilled Women (September 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
S Agarwal , Y Lin , M Shen , S Wu
PCPS CPA Firm Top Issues Survey Commentary Posted: 2017
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , Y Dou , J Kim
Public audit oversight and the originate-to-distribute model
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
D Aobdia , A Srivastava , E Wang
Are immigrants complements or substitutes? Evidence from the audit industry
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1997 - 2012 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
844
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,945
RANK
66,282
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies