Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The ‘Investor Identity’: The Ultimate Driver of Returns

19 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2023

Ashby Monk

Stanford University

Dane Rook

Stanford University

Date Written: January 14, 2023

Abstract

What is the most important driver of long-term investment returns? Many investors would point to asset allocation, which refers to the process of deciding which categories of assets to invest in. Some investors might point to portfolio implementation, which refers to the process of selecting specific assets within asset class categories. This paper argues that neither reflects the true foundation of investment performance, as portfolios are not allocated or implemented in vacuums. We argue an investor’s organizational capabilities determine what asset classes are investable and how investors can invest in them. This paper thus conceptualizes an investor’s set of organizational capabilities as its identity. While some have referred to this concept as a “Model” (e.g., Yale Model, Canadian Model, or Norwegian Model), the term "identity" avoids confusion associated with the numerous other models already at work in the investment business. Accordingly, an investor’s identity is akin to a sort-of “‘kitchen” in that it refers to the specific manner in which an investor “cooks up” its risk-adjusted net returns. Identity thus reflects the true foundations of long-term performance: namely, how an investor organizes its capabilities to allocate assets and implement portfolio strategies.

Keywords: Institutional Investment, Endowment, Pension, Sovereign Wealth Fund, Governance, Pension Governance

Suggested Citation:

Monk, Ashby and Rook, Dane, The ‘Investor Identity’: The Ultimate Driver of Returns (January 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,308
RANK
10,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies