Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Investment Committee Mitigate the Risk of Financial Distress in GCC? the Role of Investment Inefficiency

Posted: 18 Jan 2023

Redhwan Al-dhamari

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 16, 2023

Abstract

Purpose- This study empirically examines how the voluntary formation of a specialized investment committee (IC), and IC characteristics affect financial distress risk (FDR), and whether such impact is influenced by the level of investment inefficiency.

Design/methodology/approach- We use a large sample of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) non- financial companies during 2006-2016. A principal component analysis (PCA) is done to aggregate and derive a factor score for IC characteristics (i.e., independence, size, and meeting) as a proxy for the effectiveness of IC. Our study also employs three measurements of financial distress risk to corroborate the findings and partitions sample firms into overinvesting and underinvesting companies to examine the potential impact of investment inefficiency on the IC-financial distress risk nexus.

Findings- Using feasible generalized least square (FGLS) estimation method, we document that the likelihood of financial distress occurrence decreases for firms with separate ICs. We also find that firms with effective ICs enjoy lower FDR. In other words, the probability of financial distress minimizes if the IC is large, meets frequently, and has a high number of independent directors. However, we find neither any moderation nor any mediation effect of investment inefficiency for the impact of IC and IC attributes on FDR. Our additional analysis indicates the expected benefits of an actively performing IC are amplified for firms with risk of both over- and underinvestment. These findings are robust to alternative measures of FDR and investment inefficiency, sub-sample analysis and endogeneity concerns.

Originality/value- The study, to the best of researchers’ knowledge, is the first to provide evidence in GCC firms’ perspective suggesting that the existence of an effective IC is associated with a lower risk of financial distress, and, to some extent, the economic benefits of IC are aggrandized for companies with a high probability of over- and underinvestment problems. These results are unique and contribute to a small but growing body of literature documenting the need for effective ICs and their economic consequences on investment efficiency in the financial distress risk environment. Our findings carry valuable practical implications for regulatory bodies, policymakers, investors, and other interested parties in the GCC region.

Keywords: Investment committee, financial distress risk, investment inefficiency, GCC countries

JEL Classification: M41, G31, G33

Suggested Citation:

Al-dhamari, Redhwan, Does Investment Committee Mitigate the Risk of Financial Distress in GCC? the Role of Investment Inefficiency (January 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324951
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
305
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies