Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Divestment and Green Innovation

70 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2023 Last revised: 15 Dec 2024

Zhen Ye

Texas Tech University - Area of Finance

Date Written: October 16, 2022

Abstract

I study how banks affect their borrowing firms’ green innovation when they reduce credit to firms with high carbon emissions. Using banks’ commitments to carbon neutrality as credit shocks to the borrowing firms, I first show that high-emission firms file fewer green patents following their relationship banks’ commitments to carbon neutrality. At the same time, other borrowing firms that receive increased lending from these committed banks see an increase in green patent filings. Second, I present evidence suggesting that financial constraints and inventor mobility are important mechanisms driving these effects. Third, I find that the value of newly filed green patents by firms in high-emission industries declines post-commitment, whereas there appears to be no discernible impact on the value of green patents filed by other firms. Finally, I develop a novel measure that gauges a patent’s relevance to mitigating climate change impact using text algorithms and show that banks’ commitments lead to lower relevance of green patents filed by high-emission firms. Altogether, the paper highlights an unintended consequence of bank divestment: a decrease in the production of high-quality green patents.

Keywords: Bank Divestment, Green Innovation, Financial Constraint, Inventor Mobility

JEL Classification: G21, G30, D22

Suggested Citation:

Ye, Zhen, Bank Divestment and Green Innovation (October 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Accetturo , G Barboni , M Cascarano , E Garcia-Appendini , M Tomasi
Credit supply and green investments Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , D Hanley , W Kerr
Transition to clean technology
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , p. 52 - 104 Posted: 2016
H Allcott , M Greenstone
Is there an energy efficiency gap
Journal of Economic perspectives , volume 26 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 2012
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
RANK
772,295
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies