Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Dark: Incentives for Private Firms’ Strategic Nondisclosure

60 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2023 Last revised: 17 Oct 2023

Ulrich Atz

New York University (NYU) - Center for Sustainable Business

Massimiliano Bonacchi

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management; Stern School of Business, New York University

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Date Written: January 16, 2023

Abstract

We study the disclosure decision of private firms and document a U-shape
nondisclosure pattern in performance, i.e., private firms tend to disclose intermediate
news and conceal extreme good or bad news. This finding is consistent with
the intuitive idea that stakeholders and market participants react much stronger
to extreme news (either good or bad news), which results in higher proprietary
costs to the disclosing firm. Private firms face substantially lower capital market
incentives and agency costs compared to public firms, which enables to better
identify their proprietary costs. We exploit the Italian setting where: 1) private,
limited liabilities firms have to annually file their financial statements; 2) failing
to disclose results in a minuscule fine – which makes it a de facto voluntary disclosure
setting; and, 3) we can observe the years before a firm stops disclosing
and investigate the manager’s choice to go dark. In four cross-sectional analyses
we find that both higher ownership concentration as well as a higher stakeholder
exposure to debtholders, suppliers, and employees moderate the likelihood of a
firm to go dark.

Keywords: private firms, proprietary costs, disclosure, disclosure incentives, disclosure regulation

JEL Classification: L10, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Atz, Ulrich and Bonacchi, Massimiliano and Guttman, Ilan, Going Dark: Incentives for Private Firms’ Strategic Nondisclosure (January 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4325834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4325834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Cyrus Aghamolla , Richard T Thakor
Do Mandatory Disclosure Requirements for Private Firms Increase the Propensity of Going Public?
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 1475
Christopher Armstrong , John D Kepler , Delphine Samuels , Daniel Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022-07
Benito Arruñada
Mandatory Accounting Disclosure by Small Private Companies
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 413 Posted: 2011
Stephen P Baginski , M John , Hassell , D Michael , Kimbrough
The Effect of Legal Environment on Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts Issued in U.S. And Canadian Markets , volume 77 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
187,370
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies