Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade-Offs for Good Performing CSR Firms: Tone Management in MD&As or CSR?

33 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2023

Iny Hwang

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Sibei Yan

Kyung Hee University

Hyung Rok Jung

Kyung Hee University

Date Written: January 16, 2023

Abstract

Previous research analyzes the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance and the tone of a single report. Noting that reporting attributes and financial performance may influence managers’ disclosure decisions, we investigate how CSR performance at different financial performance affects managers’ tone management behavior across reports. Using data from Chinese listed firms from 2010 to 2019, we find that CSR performance is positively associated with management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) managerial tone and not significantly associated with CSR managerial tone, indicating that managers prefer to use a more optimistic tone in MD&A over CSR. We also find that CSR performance is negatively related to MD&A managerial tone and positively related to CSR managerial tone when the firm performs poorly, suggesting that firms switch from MD&A-based to CSR-based tone management when financial performance decrease. These results suggest an alternative relationship between the managerial tone in MD&A and CSR. Further, this alternative relationship is more pronounced in SOEs. Our findings support the argument that good performing CSR firms camouflage their opportunistic behavior by strategically switching the managerial tone.

Keywords: CSR performance; Tone Management; CSR Reports; Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Iny and Yan, Sibei and Jung, Hyung Rok, Trade-Offs for Good Performing CSR Firms: Tone Management in MD&As or CSR? (January 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4325424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4325424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
521,283
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies