Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Capital Structure on the Growth of Construction Companies

110 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2023 Last revised: 3 Feb 2023

Ogulo James Emmanuel

Amity University

Date Written: January 17, 2023

Abstract

This study was set to determine the impact of capital structure on the growth of construction companies. Thirty construction companies listed by the National Stock Exchange (NSE) of India were randomly selected, and their financial data of 2018 – 2022 used. Specifically, the study investigated the impact of debt to equity (D/E) ratio on sustainable growth, and internal growth of construction companies, also it studied the relationship between capital structure and size of construction company. To achieve the study objectives, I used my newly devised global growth model called the Multinationality Cancellation Model (MCM) in combination with other existing growth models that is the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) and the Internal Growth Rate (IGR) models. After the analysis was done, it was observed that the D/E ratios had a positive covariance of 5.6 and a positive correlation of 6% with the Multinationality Cancellation Factors (MCFs), meaning the two move in the same direction. That sets a new landmark for companies, enabling them now to select the right choice of capital structure which remarkably can support their growth in a global perspective. The results of the study showed that all the companies that unknowingly fulfilled the requirements of this new devised MCM approach, showed a high sustainable growth rate, and a high internal growth rates. However, companies which went against the MCM approach, showed a zero or negative sustainable growth or internal growth.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Sustainable Growth, Global Impact, Growth Models, Sustainable Growth, Firm Size, Construction, Valuation Metric, Multinationality Cancellation Model (MCM)

JEL Classification: G3, G32, F23, G30, G11,G01, M13, P59, F01, F30, F64, F63, F60

Suggested Citation:

James Emmanuel, Ogulo, The Impact of Capital Structure on the Growth of Construction Companies (January 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4326938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4326938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
RANK
259,334
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies