Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Catching the Bug: Cyberattack Spillovers on Stakeholder Firms

44 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2023

Banks Osborne

East Carolina University - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 4, 2023

Abstract

I examine how cyberattacks affect the wealth, operational performance, and business strategies of non-targeted joint venture/strategic alliance partners, suppliers, and customers. Cyberattacks are associated with large losses in stakeholder value around attack announcements. Contrary to expectations, I find that, on average, cyberattacks do not tend to adversely affect stakeholder firms over the long term. Instead, managers appear to make temporary changes that help protect their firms from potentially adverse spillovers that they later reverse. However, responses vary based on the nature of information lost from the attack and the potential damage the events may inflict on the stakeholder relationship with the target. Lastly, suppliers are more likely to retain their relationship with targeted customers post-attack, and this effect is potentially driven by their reliance on relationship-specific investments. In contrast, other stakeholders do not make adjustments to their supply chains.

Keywords: Cyberattacks, Cyber Risk, Spillover Effects, Stakeholder Relationships, FinTech

JEL Classification: G38, G39, L22, M19

Suggested Citation:

Osborne, Banks, Catching the Bug: Cyberattack Spillovers on Stakeholder Firms (January 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4327970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4327970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,113
RANK
314,223
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies