Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Green Credit Policy Affect Polluting Firms’ Dividend Policy? The China Experience

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 88, No. 102631, 2023

58 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2023 Last revised: 1 May 2023

Youwei Li

University of Hull

Ming Liao

Nankai University, The School of Finance

Yangke Liu

Queen's Management School

Date Written: January 17, 2023

Abstract

We explore how polluting firms alter their dividend policy in response to pressure from green credit policy. The green credit guidelines that China adopted in 2012 aim to promote credit supply in sustainable development. Meanwhile, this green credit policy forced polluting firms to access restricted credit supply and tightened bank monitoring. Using the adoption of the green credit policy as a quasi-natural experiment, we find that polluting firms tend to lower their dividend payments, consistent with the view that dividends act as an effective tool of liquidity management and a substitute to mitigate agency problems. This finding is more pronounced among firms with weaker corporate governance, greater financial constraints, and more green innovation output. Our further analysis suggests that the green credit policy forces polluting firms to engage in less dividend smoothing.

Keywords: Dividend policy; green policy; China; credit supply; bank monitoring; corporate

JEL Classification: G21; G34; G35; Q55; Q58; L60

Suggested Citation:

Li, Youwei and Liao, Ming and Liu, Yangke, How Does Green Credit Policy Affect Polluting Firms’ Dividend Policy? The China Experience (January 17, 2023). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 88, No. 102631, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4327022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4327022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
307,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies