Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management Practices and Credit Risk of the Significantly Supervised European Banks

Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 2022

Posted: 20 Jan 2023

Anum Qureshi

Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi

Eric Lamarque

Independent

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to examine the influence of risk management (RM) practices on the credit risk of significantly supervised European banks.

Design/methodology/approach – To avoid regulatory and reporting discrepancies, this paper samples banks that come under the direct supervision of the European Central Bank. Significantly supervised European Banks are selected for the five years from 2013 to 2017. The RM and governance data is manually drawn (from annual reports, registration documents, governance, and RM reports), and financial data sets are also used (from Moody’s BankFocus and ORBIS).

Findings – The results indicate that strong risk control and supervision by a powerful chief risk officer (CRO) reduces banks’ credit risk. Banks with powerful and independent CROs tend to manage their risks effectively, reporting lower credit risk.

Research limitations/implications – European Union introduced Capital Requirement Directive IV in 2013 and new guidelines on the banks’ internal governance in 2017, which were to be implemented in 2018. Thus, this paper limited the sample to five years (from 2013 to 2017) to avoid inconsistencies in the results. Future studies can extend the research and compare banks’ credit risk before and after the implementation of regulatory guidelines.

Practical implications – Since the global financial crisis, the regulatory environment has sufficiently changed. Hence, this study reveals that not all practices but a few important ones reduce credit risk.

Social implications – Effective risk control and supervision at the bank level can lower credit risk, ultimately enhancing overall financial stability.

Originality/value – Most existing studies focus on classic governance indicators to analyze banks’ credit risk; however, this paper considers risk governance indicators which include RM practices used by European banks. Moreover, existing studies in this line focus on the crisis period of 2007–2008. This paper considered the post-financial crisis period, specifically after the implementation of the Capital Requirements Directive at the European level.

Keywords: Credit risk, Risk-taking, Risk management, Risk controls, Banks

Suggested Citation:

Qureshi, Anum and Lamarque, Eric, Risk Management Practices and Credit Risk of the Significantly Supervised European Banks (September 19, 2022). Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4328566
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies