Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges in Evaluating Corporate Governance: Evidence from Chief Audit Executives

Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2024-018]

51 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Aug 2025

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Terry L. Neal

University of Tennessee

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Date Written: June 10, 2025

Abstract

Researchers and practitioners both emphasize the importance of sound corporate governance, yet we know little about how companies monitor and evaluate their governance systems on an ongoing basis. To bridge this gap, we interview 29 chief audit executives (CAEs) from publicly traded companies in the U.S. to learn about current practices and challenges faced in evaluating corporate governance. Our analysis reveals that internal audit’s current governance evaluation practices are often piecemeal and disconnected from the organization’s objectives. Key challenges include perceptions that management and the board are not willing participants, concerns that “effective” corporate governance is subjective and hard to measure, and discomfort experienced when communicating deficiencies to management and the board. Informed by the concept of decoupling from institutional theory, our findings reveal a need for additional research on corporate governance evaluations and consideration by policymakers regarding the rigor of internal audit’s governance evaluation practices.

Keywords: corporate governance, evaluation, internal audit, institutional theory, decoupling

JEL Classification: G34, M10, M14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Hayne, Christie and Neal, Terry L. and Stein, Sarah E., Challenges in Evaluating Corporate Governance: Evidence from Chief Audit Executives (June 10, 2025). Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, 2025[10.2308/AJPT-2024-018], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4330532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/AJPT-2024-018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
L Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
J N Arguello , L M Cunningham , T L Neal
The importance of the chief audit executive administrative reporting line Posted: 2024
C Armstrong , I Gow , D Larcker
The efficacy of shareholder voting: Evidence from equity compensation plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
M Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson , T Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 122 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,147
RANK
144,892
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies