Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Regulatory Compliance in the United States

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

83 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2023 Last revised: 23 Oct 2024

Francesco Trebbi

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Miao Ben Zhang

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business - Finance and Business Economics Department

Michael Simkovic

University of Southern California Gould School of Law; University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 15, 2023

Abstract

A key question for studying business dynamism is whether the costs of regulatory compliance fall homogeneously on small and large businesses. Using comprehensive establishment-level occupational microdata and occupation task information, we quantify a firm's compliance costs as the share of wage bill for performing regulatory compliance tasks (RegIndex). We reveal an inverted-U relation between firms' RegIndex and their size, with 500-employment firms facing compliance costs 40 percent higher as a share of total wages than small or large firms. We further develop an instrumental variable methodology to disentangle the influence of regulatory requirements and enforcement in driving firms’ compliance costs.

Keywords: Regulation, Compliance Costs, Labor Task, Occupation, Firm Growth, Economies of Scale, Regulatory Requirement, Enforcement

JEL Classification: G38; J01; K2; L43; L51

Suggested Citation:

Trebbi, Francesco and Zhang, Miao Ben and Simkovic, Michael, The Cost of Regulatory Compliance in the United States (January 15, 2023). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4331146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4331146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings
Handbook of labor economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
AI and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies Posted: 2020
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
P Aghion , A Bergeaud , J Van Reenen
The impact of regulation on innovation Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Daphne Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Jeffrey L. Hoopes
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 65 Pages · Posted: 28 Apr 2023 · Last revised: 6 May 2024 · Downloads: 823
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,741
RANK
45,130
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies