Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Tax Planning, Dividend Policy and Institutional Ownership on Firm Value

8 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023

Muhammad Tafsir

STIEM Bongaya

Date Written: January 21, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to identify & analyze the impact of tax planning, dividend policy & corporate ownership on the business cost of manufacturing companies in the food and beverage sub-sector traded on the Indonesian Stock Exchange for 2017-2020. The data collection uses secondary data from financial reports available at www.idx.co.id and shares 104 data for the period 2017-2020 of manufacturing companies in the Indonesian Stock Exchange-listed food and beverage sub-sector. Observations. The samples taken were 36 observations. The results of the study of data variables were tested against the classical hypothesis in the form of the normality hypothesis, the multicollinearity hypothesis and the heteroscedasticity hypothesis. The data analysis method uses multiple linear regression and hypothesis testing; after the data collected, the data is analyzed using multiple linear regression and hypothesis testing; after the data is collected, the data is analyzed. Use the Statistics Product and Service Solution (SPSS) version 21 program. The results of the survey show that the tax plan asa, measured by the effective tax rate, has a negative impact on corporate value with little impact. Dividend policies measured using the Dividend Payment Rate have a significant positive effect on a company's value. Institutional Ownership positively Price Book value.

Keywords: Effective Tax Rate, Dividend Payment Rate, Institutional Ownership

Suggested Citation:

Tafsir, Muhammad, The Influence of Tax Planning, Dividend Policy and Institutional Ownership on Firm Value (January 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4332604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4332604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
RANK
328,615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies