Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing Right at Home: Do Hometown CEOs Curb Corporate Misconduct?

59 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2023

XingHe Liu

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Weifeng Zhong

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Jing Chen

Jiangxi Normal University

Date Written: January 21, 2023

Abstract

Challenging the homo economicus assumption underlying the traditional agency theory, our study explores the impact of CEO hometown identity on corporate misconduct from the perspective of social identity theory. The results based on a sample of listed Chinese firms from 2008 to 2020 show that CEO hometown identity significantly curbs unethical corporate behavior; such monitoring effect of CEO hometown identity is more pronounced in regions with deeper Confucianism and clan cultures. Additional analyses reveal that the monitoring role of CEO hometown identity substitutes for external and internal monitoring mechanisms. Our study also shows that CEO hometown identity as a monitor not only applies to CEO-related misbehavior, but also spills over to organization-wide operation- and disclosure-related misconduct. By highlighting the monitoring role of CEO hometown identity, our study sheds new insight on the role of managerial psychological traits in discipling corporate misconduct and offers valuable practical implications on promoting business ethics.

Keywords: Hometown identity; Corporate misconduct; Social identity theory; Confucianism culture; Clan culture

Suggested Citation:

Liu, XingHe and Zhong, Weifeng and Chen, Jing, Doing Right at Home: Do Hometown CEOs Curb Corporate Misconduct? (January 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4332870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4332870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,055
RANK
375,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies