Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Voting and Disclosure in M&As

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 879/2023

72 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Tan Do

Bayes Business School (formerly Cass), City, University of London

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Anna Toldrà-Simats

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Fengzhi Zhu

University of Glasgow

Date Written: January 21, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of voting requirements in M&A transactions on managerial disclosure, information asymmetries, and voting outcomes. We find that voting requirements lead firms to provide more disclosure and in a timelier manner, including disclosure of the merger agreement, information on expected synergies, and post-merger earnings forecasts. We document a larger reduction in information asymmetries in deals subject to vote. More disclosure in the presence of voting requirements also triggers more sales from transient institutional investors. Lower information asymmetries and more transient institutional sales are associated with higher voting support and a higher likelihood that the deal is completed. Our results suggest that disclosure induced by voting requirements is informative and affects voting outcomes by changing the market valuation of the deal and the shareholder base. Evidence from falsification tests and a regression discontinuity design supports the causal interpretation of our results.

Keywords: shareholder voting, disclosure, information asymmetry, M&As

JEL Classification: G14, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Do, Tan and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Toldrà Simats, Anna and Zhu, Fengzhi, Shareholder Voting and Disclosure in M&As (January 21, 2023). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 879/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4332624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4332624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
206,108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies