Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should the Board Have Control Over Shareholder Proposals? Evidence from China

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2023 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Bruce Zhou

Peking University - Peking University Law School

Abstract

This Article empirically investigates the impacts of the board’s rejection of shareholder proposals on corporate value and the appropriate approach to regulation. I utilize a hand-collected dataset of such incidents in China, a jurisdiction where the board enjoys almost unfettered discretion in rejecting proposals due to the lack of an effective and legally binding enforcement mechanism. The research results provide suggestive evidence that the market reacts negatively to the announcement of proposal rejections, leading to a significant decline in a firm’s stock value. The most adverse effects are associated with rejections of director nomination proposals and blockholder-sponsored proposals. The presence of external legal opinions can mitigate these negative consequences. It is further revealed that although the two stock exchanges in China exhibit an overall capability to identify rejection decisions that can damage corporate value, the effectiveness of their regulatory actions via comment letters is hindered by the inherent weakness of the soft law approach. Based on the results, I propose that the critical value of the shareholder proposal regime lies in providing a lost-cost approach for dissident shareholders to replace poorly performing management and facilitating the constructive engagement of large shareholders and the management. I also recommend that China establish an SEC-style review process for the board’s rejection decisions, with the exchanges as the ultimate authority permitting the exclusion of shareholder proposals.

Keywords: Shareholder proposal; Shareholder activism; Right to propose; Corporate governance; Event study

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22, M48, N25, P48

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Bruce, Should the Board Have Control Over Shareholder Proposals? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4333872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4333872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
560,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies