Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Outside Directors and Firm Performance: Evidence from Japan

45 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2023 Last revised: 2 Feb 2023

Toshi Mitsudome

Hunter College - The City University of New York

Date Written: January 26, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates why corporations hire outside board of directors and how the outside directors affect firm performance. I use a sample of large Japanese corporations to test my hypotheses. Using a sample of 173 unique firms during the 2011-2021 period, I find that firms on average increase the presence of outside directors following poor performance, likely in response to greater pressure from the shareholders to increase management oversight. Additionally, I find that the presence of outside directors are positively associated with stock returns, while it does not contribute to firm’s profitability or relative valuation. As for the types of outside directors, I find that firm performance declines when firms have ex-government officials as outside directors, which suggests that these firms suffer from greater agency problems.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Outside Directors, Firm Performance, Japan

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M16

Suggested Citation:

Mitsudome, Toshiaki, Corporate Governance, Outside Directors and Firm Performance: Evidence from Japan (January 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4334208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
342,507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies