Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Competency and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from LinkedIn Human Capital Data

Forthcoming: Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory

52 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023 Last revised: 2 Feb 2023

Melissa Renschler

Suffolk University; Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: January 23, 2023

Abstract

Limited availability of human capital data on the internal audit function (IAF) has constrained research on this topic. This study overcomes certain data limitations by using LinkedIn data from Revelio Labs. Using longitudinal data on individual IAF employees, we document that IAF experience, education, and size are associated with higher financial reporting quality. Specifically, we find that IAF competency is inversely associated with the propensity for material weaknesses and misstatements. We further document that firms respond to these adverse reporting events by investing in IAF competency, and these results are driven by improvements to IAF experience and size. Finally, we find that improvements in IAF competency are positively associated with the remediation of material weaknesses. Our findings can help internal audit leaders focus on shaping their functions and aid them in garnering support for investment in the IAF from management and the board. Regulators that have focused on improving financial reporting quality via oversight over external auditors and audit committees may also consider focusing on the IAF.

Keywords: internal audit function, internal audit competency, human capital, financial reporting quality, material weakness, misstatements, restatement disclosure, employee resume data, LinkedIn, Revelio Labs

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Renschler, Melissa and Ahn, Jaehan and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Internal Audit Competency and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from LinkedIn Human Capital Data (January 23, 2023). Forthcoming: Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4335236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4335236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
777
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
73,926
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies