Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability, CEO Age and the Moderating Effect of Firm Characteristics

Desir, R., Rakestraw, J., Seavey, S., Wainberg, J., & Young, G. (2023). Managerial ability, CEO age and the moderating effect of firm characteristics. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 00, 00– 00. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12689

60 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023

Rosemond Desir

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Joseph Rakestraw

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Scott Seavey

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

James Wainberg

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

George Young

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 2023

Abstract

Recent surveys indicate that America's Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) are getting older. While ageing is often associated with greater experience, improved skillsets, and higher job performance, prior research warns that ageing can also lead to a significant decrease in cognitive function, energy, ambition, and consequently, the ability of CEOs to manage their firms. We examine this issue and find that older CEOs display significantly lower managerial ability as compared to younger CEOs. Exploring differences in firm factors, we further find that older CEOs exhibit significantly lower managerial ability when managing high-technology firms and significantly higher managerial ability when managing more mature, highly regulated firms. Collectively, our study provides new evidence that, while managerial ability decreases with age, firm characteristics significantly moderate this relationship.

Keywords: Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Age, Managerial Ability, Mandatory Retirement, Firm Characteristics

JEL Classification: G30, M12, M40

Suggested Citation:

Desir, Rosemond and Rakestraw, Joseph and Seavey, Scott and Wainberg, James and Young, George, Managerial Ability, CEO Age and the Moderating Effect of Firm Characteristics (January 2023). Desir, R., Rakestraw, J., Seavey, S., Wainberg, J., & Young, G. (2023). Managerial ability, CEO age and the moderating effect of firm characteristics. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 00, 00– 00. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12689, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4336661 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4336661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,201
RANK
217,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies