Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

“Timely” Charitable Donations and Untimely Goodwill Impairment

40 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023 Last revised: 23 Oct 2024

Zhichuan Frank Li

University of Western Ontario - Ivey School of Business

Xiaozhe Lu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Jian Wang

Jilin University (JLU) - School of Law

Date Written: February 7, 2024

Abstract

If the value of goodwill declines, goodwill impairment should be disclosed in a timely manner. Deliberately delaying goodwill impairment is a widespread ethical issue. Based on the mergers of Chinese listed companies, we study the motivation of corporate charitable donations when firms face the risk of goodwill impairment. Our results suggest that long-term (consistent) charitable donations reflect more altruistic social responsibility than short-term (sudden) donations. In particular, firms that make more long-term donations tend to report goodwill impairment timely, while those engaging in excessive short-term donations are more likely to delay goodwill impairment. We further find that short-term donations are motivated not only by covering up impairment delays but also by providing insurance-like protection when delayed impairment is announced. Our results also imply that moral licensing may contribute to such opportunistic behaviors. To address potential endogeneity, we use the number of regional charitable funds and the number of regional deaths due to natural disasters as instrumental variables for short-term donations. Overall, our findings suggest that opportunistic donations can be employed to conceal delayed goodwill impairment and mitigate its negative effects upon disclosure.

Keywords: timeliness of goodwill impairment; goodwill impairment risk; CSR; charitable donations; moral licensing, goodwill impairment risk, CSR, charitable donations

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhichuan Frank and Lu, Xiaozhe and Wang, Jian,

“Timely” Charitable Donations and Untimely Goodwill Impairment

(February 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4337571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
P D Allison
Survival analysis using SAS: a practical guide Posted: 2010
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of financial economics , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
274,044
9 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies