Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sec Confidential Treatment and Regulatory Filing Reviews

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023 Last revised: 30 Nov 2024

Kalin S. Kolev

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Daeun (Philip) Lee

California State Polytechnic University, San Luis Obispo - Accounting and Law Area

Monica Neamtiu

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 15, 2022

Abstract

We study the interplay between the redaction of information from regulatory filings and SEC monitoring of the redacting firms. We find that redactions are associated with more intense SEC monitoring, as evidenced by higher incidence of comment letters and a longer letter resolution process. Hand collected data indicate seller firms that redact information from their sales, licensing, and royalty contracts are more likely to receive revenue recognition-related comment letters, suggesting spurious correlation is not a likely explanation of the inference. We supplement our findings by providing evidence that redacting firms tend to manage proprietary information disclosure, withholding proprietary information that should be made public under extant rules and regulations. Our findings shed light on how various SEC monitoring processes interact and support one another, offering a novel look on the interaction between a firm’s management of proprietary information disclosure and regulatory oversight.

Keywords: confidential treatment, redaction, proprietary costs, SEC monitoring, comment letters, SEC resource constraints

JEL Classification: G38, M21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kolev, Kalin S. and Lee, Daeun and Neamtiu, Monica, Sec Confidential Treatment and Regulatory Filing Reviews (December 15, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
702,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies