Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who’s Socially Responsible? The Double Bind of Materiality

Posted: 26 Jan 2023

Sheen S. Levine

University of Texas at Dallas

Razvan Lungeanu

Northeastern University (USA)

Date Written: January 25, 2022

Abstract

Some call on corporations to serve society, not just the bottom line. Some disagree, others doubt that a company can be civic-minded. Either way, the debaters often neglect to ask what members of society perceive as social responsibility. Using archival data, press coverage, and behavioral experiments, we suggest that public perception hobbles the promise of corporate social responsibility. We ask how members of society interpret a corporation’s actions and attribute the extent of its social responsibility. Employing a blend of experimental and econometric methods, we examine which actions create an aura of social responsibility. We find that consumers perceive a corporation as more socially responsible when it supports more causes, even if the total amount spent remains identical. For example, a company that devotes $1 million to vaccinating children in Africa against malaria tends to be perceived as less responsible than a company that spreads the same amount across several causes.

What’s more, a corporation is perceived as less socially responsible when it supports material causes, those that are related to its core activity. For example, when a pharmaceutical spends money on free vaccination, the public perception is less favorable than when a software company does the same. These results reveal the double bind of materiality: Members of society reward corporations for supporting numerous causes and penalize them for supporting material ones. So, a corporation may be better perceived when it does not specialize. Paradoxically, a corporation may be rewarded with better perceptions of responsibility when it spreads its charitable giving across numerous unrelated causes — even if doing so undermines the effectiveness of dealing with those social issues. We discuss how the double-bind of materiality can hobble the promise of corporate social responsibility in addressing social needs.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Philantropy, Strategy, Consumers, Experiment

Suggested Citation:

Levine, Sheen S. and Lungeanu, Razvan, Who’s Socially Responsible? The Double Bind of Materiality (January 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337908
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies