Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Covenants after Bankruptcy

48 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2023

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ivana Raonic

City University London - The Business School

Date Written: January 26, 2023

Abstract

We provide evidence that the resolution of financial distress through bankruptcy has implications for the subsequent covenant design of loan contracts. We document that lenders prefer performance covenants and put less weight on capital covenants in loans agreed in the year after the firm’s emergence from bankruptcy. To keep control over excessive leverage after bankruptcy, lenders compensate the decrease in capital covenants with a greater use of non-accounting and liquidity covenants that directly restrict the firm’s investment and financing activities. We also find that the changes in covenant preferences post-bankruptcy are more pronounced when creditors gained greater control rights through the bankruptcy process, by means of debtor-in-possession financing. Our results suggest that the significant transfer of rights to creditors arising in bankruptcy, vis-à-vis voluntary debt restructuring, has implications for loan contracting after the bankruptcy; and that creditors shift their preference towards mechanisms that elicit proactive monitoring over the firm’s performance rather than mechanisms that align interests with shareholders.

Keywords: Financial covenants, Creditor control, Debt contracting, Chapter 11, Loans

JEL Classification: M21, M41, G30, G33

Suggested Citation:

Isidro, Helena and Raonic, Ivana, Debt Covenants after Bankruptcy (January 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4338445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4338445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
472,791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies