Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring accounting quality based on real-transaction online sales data

64 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2023 Last revised: 28 Jun 2023

Yang Yi

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accounting

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Xiaofeng Zhao

Lingnan University

Date Written: January 26, 2023

Abstract

In this study, we develop a new measure of accounting quality based on real-transaction online sales data from a leading B2C e-commerce platform. Our exploration into the catalysts for online sales reveals the degree to which a firm’s share of online sales over total sales is influenced by industry peer pressure and their readiness to embrace e-commerce. With these insights, we develop a model and project firms' reported sales onto online sales to derive a discretionary sales metric. We find that firms with an elevated level of discretionary sales demonstrate lower sales persistence and are more likely than those with a lower level of discretionary sales to witness an uptick in accounts receivable, restate their financial reports, and incur high audit fees. Overall, our evidence suggests that online sales contain significant information about firms’ fundamentals and reporting quality.

Keywords: Accounting quality, Online sales, Transaction data, E-commerce

JEL Classification: G11, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yi, Yang and Zhang, Bohui and Zhao, Xiaofeng, Measuring accounting quality based on real-transaction online sales data (January 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4338168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4338168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
e-commerce is defined as a shopping service that is provided directly by firms to individuals. An online store set up to enable businesses to buy from other businesses is called a business-to-business
E-commerce share of total global retail sales from 2015 to 2024 Posted: 2022-09
S Agarwal , W Qian , X Zou
Disaggregated sales and stock returns
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 11 , p. 7167 - 7183 Posted: 2021
J Aharony , C.-W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,527
RANK
215,250
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies