Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calling for Transparency: Evidence from a Field Experiment

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2023 Last revised: 15 May 2023

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Shubo Zhang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Tianyu Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: January 26, 2023

Abstract

We examine how firms respond to requests for enhanced disclosure that we make on an online investor platform. Exploiting variation in firms’ customer and supplier disclosures, we ask a randomized set of non-disclosing firms to provide information on their customers’ and suppliers’ identities. We find that the firms’ probability of disclosure depends on the basis we give for the demand—requests appealing to disclosure’s usefulness to investors lead to more frequent disclosure, while those appealing to regulators’ preference for disclosure lead to less frequent disclosure. The requests we make on the platform lead to more frequent customer- and supplier-related inquiries from other platform users. We also find that the treatment firms’ disclosure of customer and supplier information improves in the next period’s regulatory filings. The findings suggest that investor platforms can enhance corporate transparency by increasing retail investors’ ability to demand information.

Keywords: Investor Online Platforms, Retail investors, Disclosure, Customer and supplier information, Proprietary costs

JEL Classification: G00, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wong, T.J. and Yu, Gwen and Zhang, Shubo and Zhang, Tianyu, Calling for Transparency: Evidence from a Field Experiment (January 26, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4338061 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4338061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,921
RANK
108,263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies