Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ELI Guidance on Company Capital and Financial Accounting for Corporate Sustainability

Report of the European Law Institute (ELI), Vienna, ISBN: 978-3-9505318-1-7, 2023

68 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2023

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Colin Haslam

Queen Mary University of London

Corrado Malberti

University of Trento - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 27, 2023

Abstract

Environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations rank high on the EU agenda. These considerations concern broad matters pointing to the sustainable and responsible long-term relationship of companies with stakeholders, society and nature. The EU has developed the European Green Deal, taking an active role in the global momentum towards fostering and facilitating sustainable business conduct.

In this context, an important and timely debate is ongoing as to how companies could and should be sustainable and responsible for the benefit of business and society at large. As a matter of fact, it is quite evident that only financially robust companies may be able to afford the pursuit of corporate sustainability over time and circumstances.

The present contribution to this debate draws upon this common sense assumption, pointing to the relationship between corporate sustainability, company law and financial accounting. Company law requirements concerning equity capital management could benefit from reform to facilitate corporate sustainability. Financial accounting and reporting further provide convenient legal-economic instruments to control company capital management and encourage sustainable business conduct over long-term horizons and planning.

On this basis, the ELI Guidance proposes a set of Recommendations on company capital and financial accounting for corporate sustainability aimed at: (i) providing a frame of reference and analysis to understand corporate sustainability in the context of business and law; (ii) pointing to specific issues which need to be addressed by European and national lawmakers and regulators; and (iii) establishing a set of company law instruments which set out possible solutions to cope with these issues.

The Recommendations aim at restating and modernising well-established principles of European company law on: (i) distributions; (ii) equity capital maintenance; and (iii) non-distributable reserves. Specific attention was paid to the enhanced controlling of new kinds of distributions such as share buybacks, as well as to limiting distributions of non-realised gains. The Project Team developed a comprehensive set of Recommendations aimed at fostering and facilitating sustainable business conduct through responsible company capital management and financial accounting adjustments. Further Recommendations were provided on related policy and regulatory matters concerning the EU framework for corporate sustainability.

As a whole, the Recommendations propose that companies commit to a prudent use of resources, by setting aside sufficient reserves to meet social and environmental commitments over long-term horizons, and establish a fair balance between these commitments and distributions to shareholding investors. Corporate sustainability may be enhanced by implementing controls over distributions while reinforcing reserve provisioning. This in turn will ensure company continuity and resilience, as well as financial stability and sustainable development for the benefit of business and society at large.

In conclusion, the Recommendations provide comprehensive guidance aiming at: (i) contributing to the regulatory and legislative work on company law at EU and Member State levels, especially on prudential capital management and distributions to shareholders; (ii) clarifying the duties of directors and auditors, and in so doing providing them with the legal certainty they need to discharge their obligations toward the company and society, while promoting the voluntary adoption of sustainable business conduct; (iii) clarifying key policy options for accounting law, while proposing specific accounting adjustments (similar to tax law), with a view to disclosing the financial impact of social and environmental commitments. Consequently, the Recommendations seek to enhance mutual trust across Europe by proposing a common basis for the convergence of national regulations, with a view to harmonising, clarifying and improving the implementation of company law, corporate governance and corporate reporting (both financial and non-financial) provisions dealing with sustainable business conduct. In particular, they aim at contributing to EU and national law on sustainable corporate governance, corporate sustainability due diligence, and non-financial reporting, while promoting sustainable business conduct by corporate management.

Keywords: company law, european law, financial accounting, corporate sustainability, IFRS, corporate social responsibility, corporate governance, responsible company capital management, environmental responsibility, sustainable development

JEL Classification: Q56, G38, G34, M14, M41, M48, K22, K32

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Haslam, Colin and Malberti, Corrado, ELI Guidance on Company Capital and Financial Accounting for Corporate Sustainability (January 27, 2023). Report of the European Law Institute (ELI), Vienna, ISBN: 978-3-9505318-1-7, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
RANK
315,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies