Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Hiring Control: Implications for Auditor and Preparer Behavior During the Audit

Posted: 27 Jan 2023 Last revised: 22 Mar 2023

Julia Ariel-Rohr

DePaul University

Date Written: November 16, 2022

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act sought to improve auditors’ objectivity and influence by requiring that audit committees, rather than management, hire and oversee the external auditor. However, extant literature, as well as data I report in this paper, suggest that management remains involved in auditor hiring and it is unclear whether this affects reporting behaviors. In separate experiments with highly experienced auditors and preparers, I examine how variation in auditor hiring control impacts auditors’ constraint of earnings management and preparers’ reporting aggressiveness. I posit that management control of auditor hiring establishes a tone of asymmetric power among the corporate governance parties. Accordingly, I find that when management controls hiring, auditors and preparers view management as more powerful. Surprisingly, increased perceptions of management power are associated with auditors being more willing to challenge management. This paper provides a new perspective on the effects of management involvement in the auditor hiring process and novel insights into the effects of power in a governance setting.

Keywords: Auditor selection, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, audit committees, corporate governance, power dynamics, auditor behavior, financial statement preparer behavior

Suggested Citation:

Ariel-Rohr, Julia, Auditor Hiring Control: Implications for Auditor and Preparer Behavior During the Audit (November 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4339066
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies