Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Directors’ Remuneration on Banks’ Performance: Evidence in the US Banking System

Capuano, P. (2022). Impact of Directors’ Remuneration on Banks’ Performance: Evidence in the US Banking System. Corporate Board: Role, Duties and Composition, 18(3), 24–32. https://doi.org/10.22495/cbv18i3art3

9 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023 Last revised: 8 May 2023

Paolo Capuano

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This paper explores the relationship between board director compensation and bank performance for the period 1999–2021, considering the US banking system. The literature in this area with reference to financial companies and banks is poorly developed and leads to mixed results. Furthermore, the studies have mainly focused on the remuneration of the chief executive officer (CEO), neglecting that of the board members (Minnick et al., 2011; Khumalo & Masenge, 2015; Iskandrani et al., 2018). The scientific analysis methodology adopted is based on the analysis of panel data. Firstly, the results of the data analysis make it possible to highlight the existence of a significant link between the remuneration policies adopted by banks concerning the corporate results obtained in terms of profitability. Secondly, the results show differences, in terms of impact on banking performance, between the remuneration of chief executive officers and the remuneration of directors. The results of this study can help banks identify best practices for bank management as well as provide useful insights to different categories of stakeholders, especially the bank regulators and supervisors.

Keywords: Bank Performance, Bank Profitability, Board of Directors, Corporate Governance, Director Remuneration

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G34, M52

Suggested Citation:

Capuano, Paolo, Impact of Directors’ Remuneration on Banks’ Performance: Evidence in the US Banking System ( 2022). Capuano, P. (2022). Impact of Directors’ Remuneration on Banks’ Performance: Evidence in the US Banking System. Corporate Board: Role, Duties and Composition, 18(3), 24–32. https://doi.org/10.22495/cbv18i3art3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
505,214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies