Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Managing Quality Control System Changes: How Audit Firm Leaders Experience and Navigate Conflicting Institutional Demands

59 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2023 Last revised: 24 Sep 2025

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Though rapidly evolving, quality control (QC) systems are a poorly understood determinant of audit quality. We interview 27 QC system leaders to understand how they navigate the challenges they face in changing QC systems. We find that many challenges—including obtaining buy-in, evaluating costs and benefits, and advancing proactive over reactive changes—are caused by conflicting demands arising internally. Consistent with institutional theory, our data reveal that leaders respond to conflicting demands by seeking partial conformity (e.g., negotiating among stakeholders) or by altering the framing of the demands (e.g., using scientific logic to legitimize a QC change). Interviews of eight QC system users complement and corroborate our main results and suggest opportunities for future research. Our study sheds light on how firms update QC systems and informs practitioners, regulators, and academics of the forces that shape the evolution of QC systems.

 

Keywords: quality control, auditing standards, audit quality, institutional theory, conflicting demands, response strategies

Suggested Citation:

Hayne, Christie and Peecher, Mark E. and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Zhou, Yuepin,

Managing Quality Control System Changes: How Audit Firm Leaders Experience and Navigate Conflicting Institutional Demands

(July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4339512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: Recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
AICPA Statement on Quality Management Standards , issue 1 Posted: 2022
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
RANK
232,476
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies