Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Language, Perceived Warmth, and Investors’ Reactions to Audit Committee Reports

47 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2023

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Tu Xu

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Yao Yu

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 24, 2023

Abstract

An audit committee (AC) report is the primary channel through which investors learn about the responsibilities and activities of an AC. AC members may use personal language (“we”) or impersonal language (“the audit committee”) in an AC report. Psychology research suggests that personal (versus impersonal) language signals that the language user has greater warmth and sense of communion (i.e., being part of a larger group). Applying this theory, we predict that an AC’s use of personal (versus impersonal) language leads investors to perceive a warmer and more communal AC, and that an AC’s perceived warmth/communion (cued by personal language) positively impacts investor judgments. We further posit that the positive effect of personal language is stronger when AC compensation is largely short-term than long-term. This is because investors need more assurance of AC oversight effectiveness when AC compensation is short-term, which makes investors rely more on heuristic cues such as AC language to make judgments. Consistent with this prediction, we find that when AC compensation is largely short-term, non-professional investors (proxied by M.B.A. students) react more positively to an AC’s use of personal language than impersonal language. The effect of AC language is insignificant when AC compensation is largely long-term, as the long-term compensation structure already provides assurance about the AC’s oversight effectiveness and thus, investors rely less on heuristic cues. Further, we find that the perceived warmth of AC members explains the effect of AC language. Finally, our interviews with non-professional investors corroborate some of our main findings and validate their practice implications.

Keywords: Audit committee report; audit committee compensation; investor judgment; personal language; warmth; communion

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Hun-Tong and Xu, Tu and Yu, Yao, Language, Perceived Warmth, and Investors’ Reactions to Audit Committee Reports (January 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4339541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
511,510
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies