Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
False Information Disclosure by Listed Companies in China — A Critical and Empirical Analysis

(2021-2022) 39 Singapore Law Review 90-135

49 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023

Mian Xia

National University of Singapore, Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

From the Yinguangxia scandal in 2001 to the victorious first shareholder class action against Kangmei Pharmaceutical in 2021, false information disclosure by listed companies in China is a persistent issue. Apart from these mega scandals, this empirical study found that more than a dozen of listed companies are punished by the China Securities Regulatory Commission every year. In the aftermath, shareholders often suffer massive losses. This issue has received regulatory attention and reforms were introduced under the 2019 Revision of the PRC Securities Law. What more can be done to curb the frequency and scale of false disclosure? This paper provides a two-pronged approach. Firstly, it examines the effectiveness of public enforcement in terms of administrative and criminal sanctions, and their deterrence effect. Secondly, it reviews the efficiency of private enforcement in terms of shareholder claims for compensation. It then offers recommendations to enhance the existing regulatory framework, administrative and judicial practice. For public enforcement, these include enforcement of presently under-utilized forms of punishment and enactment of stricter regulatory frameworks concerning external auditors. For private enforcement, recommendations involve removal of the unnecessarily burdensome procedural precondition, refinement of the date of revelation and standardization of the calculation of systemic risk.

Keywords: False Information Disclosure, Listed Companies in China, PRC Securities Law 2019, Public Enforcement, Private Enforcement, Shareholder Claims

JEL Classification: K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Xia, Mian, False Information Disclosure by Listed Companies in China — A Critical and Empirical Analysis (August 31, 2022). (2021-2022) 39 Singapore Law Review 90-135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4340166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
RANK
514,660
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies