Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Candidate Selection in Business Units: Be the Best or Surround Yourself with the Best?

40 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023

Jeremy B. Lill

University of Kansas

Michael Majerczyk

Georgia State University

Ivo Tafkov

Georgia State University

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

This study investigates, via an experiment, how the centralization of a firm’s candidate selection process and ambiguity about candidates affects the caliber of employees selected to join a business unit in a team-based environment. We find that, when ambiguity is present, incumbent employees’ concerns over protecting or advancing their status leads to lower quality candidates selected under a decentralized than under a centralized selection process. We also find that reducing ambiguity by providing a more complete information set of non-conflicting signals leads to better selection decisions regardless of whether selection is centralized or decentralized. Importantly, our results also show that the quality of the selected candidate remains lower under a decentralized versus centralized selection process even when a more complete set of consistent candidate-specific information is provided, suggesting that status considerations continue to influence employee selection decisions in organizations even when candidate-specific ambiguity is minimal. Overall, our results indicate that the information environment and non-pecuniary status considerations can significantly influence candidate selection decisions in organizations.

Keywords: Selection; Centralization; Information Ambiguity; Status

JEL Classification: M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Lill, Jeremy B. and Majerczyk, Michael and Tafkov, Ivo, Candidate Selection in Business Units: Be the Best or Surround Yourself with the Best? (December 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4340319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4340319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
614,231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies