Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Country-by-Country Reporting and the Misalignment between Profits and Economic Activity

53 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Preetika Joshi

McGill University

Kevin Markle

Michigan State University

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: January 31, 2023

Abstract

Believing that opacity in tax reporting enables international tax avoidance, the OECD introduced private country-by-country reporting (CbCR) whereby firms report the geographic breakdown of key financial metrics to tax authorities. The European Union implemented mandatory CbCR in 2016 for firms with consolidated revenues over €750 million. We exploit this threshold and use a non-parametric regression discontinuity design to examine the effect of CbCR on the location of firms’ profits and real activity. We find consistent evidence that firms reduced the misalignment between profit and activity in response to CbCR. We show that affiliates in high-tax countries with high activity and low profits (outbound profit shifters) prior to CbCR reduce their misalignment by decreasing fixed assets. By combining bilateral FDI position data with newly available bilateral CbCR data we find evidence consistent with other high-tax countries being the primary beneficiaries of these changing investment patterns. Our findings have important policy implications for assessing the effectiveness of CbCR.

Suggested Citation:

Joshi, Preetika and Markle, Kevin and Robinson, Leslie, Private Country-by-Country Reporting and the Misalignment between Profits and Economic Activity (January 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,119
RANK
250,789
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies