Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using ETFs to conceal insider trading *

47 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2023 Last revised: 18 Jul 2023

Elza Eglīte

Stockholm School of Economics, Riga

Dans Štaermans

Stockholm School of Economics, Riga

Vinay Patel

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Tālis J. Putniņš

University of Technology Sydney (UTS); Digital Finance CRC; Stockholm School of Economics, Riga

Date Written: July 15, 2023

Abstract

We show that exchange traded funds (ETFs) are used in a new form of insider trading known as "shadow trading." Our evidence suggests that some traders in possession of material non-public information about upcoming M&A announcements trade in ETFs that contain the target stock, rather than trading the underlying company shares, thereby concealing their insider trading. Using bootstrap techniques to identify abnormal trading in treatment and control samples, we find significant levels of shadow trading in 3-6% of same-industry ETFs prior to M&A announcements, equating to at least $212 million of such trading per annum. Our findings suggest insider trading is more pervasive than just the "direct" forms that have been the focus of research and enforcement to date.

Keywords: insider trading, shadow trading, ETF, stock JEL classification: G14, G23

JEL Classification: G14, G23

Suggested Citation:

Eglīte, Elza and Štaermans, Dans and Patel, Vinay and Putnins, Talis J., Using ETFs to conceal insider trading * (July 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Y Alperovych , D Cumming , V Czellar , A Groh
M&A rumors about unlisted firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , p. 1324 - 1339 Posted: 2021
P Augustin , M Brenner , M G Subrahmanyam
Informed options trading prior to takeover announcements: Insider trading?
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 5697 - 5720 Posted: 2019
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Essays in the Economics of Crime and Punishment Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,369
RANK
7,970
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies