Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leaving A Legacy For My Children: The One-Child Policy Reform And Engagement In CSR Among Family Firms In China

53 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jun Hu

Hainan University

Huiyingu Wu

Western Sydney University

Date Written: January 2023

Abstract

The reform of China’s one-child policy allows families to have more children and thus may affect anticipation of intergenerational succession of family businesses and drive family firms to improve their corporate social responsibility (CSR). Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that the reform positively affects family firm CSR. We also find that the positive impact is more pronounced for family firms whose owners have fewer children, have no son, and are of reproductive age, which confirms the theory that intergenerational succession anticipation drives family firm CSR. Moreover, we find that the positive impact is more pronounced for firms that operate in environments where CSR is more strategically important. We validate our findings by showing that the reform curtails family firms’ short-termism.

Keywords: One-Child Policy Reform, Corporate Social Responsibility, Family Business, Business Succession, China

JEL Classification: D10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Hu, Jun and Wu, Huiyingu, Leaving A Legacy For My Children: The One-Child Policy Reform And Engagement In CSR Among Family Firms In China (January 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
912
RANK
357,435
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies