Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Competition on Corporate Sustainability

43 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2023 Last revised: 15 Nov 2024

Titing Cui

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Esther Gal‐Or

University of Pittsburgh

Mike Gordon

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Michael Hamilton

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Jennifer Shang

University of Pittsburgh

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between competition and market composition on prosocial corporate behaviors, with a focus on the adoption of green technologies. We examine a model in which producers offer one of two substitutable goods: one that is inexpensive to produce but less environmentally responsible, referred to as the "non-green" product, and another that is more costly but sustainably produced, referred to as the "green" product. The producers of these goods can either cooperate or compete in the market, controlling both their price and level of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in order to maximize revenue. Using Salop's circle model, we examine a variety of arrangements of green and non-green producers and analyze the optimal/equilibrium policies that result. We find that in markets where firms produce both green and non-green goods, a reduction in the additional cost of green manufacturing induces more green investment and prosocial corporate investment when producers cooperate. On the other hand, when the green product is absent from the market, reductions in green production cost can more readily lead to the introduction of the green good in competitive markets. These results have significant implications for policy-making, as they provide insight into which types of markets are most impacted by reductions in the cost of green production, such as those resulting from government subsidies or technological innovation.

Keywords: Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility, ESG, Greening, Competitive Markets

JEL Classification: D40, Q01, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Titing and Gal‐Or, Esther and Gordon, Mike and Hamilton, Michael and Shang, Jennifer, The Effects of Competition on Corporate Sustainability (February 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4344348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4344348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Philippe Aghion , Roland Bénabou , Ralf Martin , Alexandra Roulet
Environmental preferences and technological choices: Is market competition clean or dirty?
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2023
Wilfred Amaldoss , Sanjay Jain
Branding conspicuous goods: an analysis of the effects of social influence and competition
Management Science , volume 61 , issue 9 , p. 2064 - 2079 Posted: 2015
Matthew Backus , Christopher Conlon , Michael Sinkinson
Common ownership in america: 1980-2017
American Economic Journal: Microeconomics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 273 - 308 Posted: 2021
Nuowen Bai , Toshihiro Matsumura
Common ownership in a delivered pricing duopoly
Journal of Economics , volume 139 , issue 3 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
215,929
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies