Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nexus between Corporate Sustainability and Financial Performance – A Theoretical Outlook

Posted: 3 Feb 2023

Sonia Kalra

Manav Rachna International Institute of Research & Studies; Manav Rachna International Institute of Research & Studies; Manav Rachna International Institute of Research & Studies

Amit Seth

Independent

Poonam Rani

Government of India - National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM)

Date Written: February 3, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of our study is to review empirical papers that have analyzed the importance of corporate sustainability and its aftermath on financial performance and vice-versa. The study has undertaken empirical studies conducted during the period from 2009 to 2019. The studies in the area of Corporate Sustainability and financial performance are ample in the context of the developed country. Still, they are very few concerning developing countries, and research in this field has taken grown in recent years only. The empirical studies meant for developed and developing countries are considered to construct a theoretical outlook. The unique part of the study is that it is headed toward finding the individual impact of financial ratios with a different proxied parameter of sustainability. Grounded on the sampled empirical findings, both the accounting and market-based ratio analysis positively and significantly impact the Sustainability score. Still, the present study is inconclusive about which financial measures among accounting and market-based measures are appropriate. The study's limitations are a small sample, limited period, and limited economic variables. The study's findings reduced the ambiguity in empirical research results that took up the impact of sustainability on the firm's value.

Keywords: Sustainability, Financial Performance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Sustainability.

Suggested Citation:

Kalra, Sonia and Seth, Amit and Rani, Poonam, Nexus between Corporate Sustainability and Financial Performance – A Theoretical Outlook (February 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4346573
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies