Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lean against the Wind: the Effect of Policy Uncertainty on a Firm's Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2023

Daoju Peng

Capital University of Economics and Business

Gonul Colak

University of Sussex ; Hanken School of Economics

Jianfu Shen

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 2, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of policy uncertainty on firms’ strategy of corporate social responsibility (CSR). During uncertain times, firms strategically increase their commitment to CSR causes. Policy uncertainty is positively associated with CSR performance regardless of the estimation method. CSR strategy can substitute for lobbying when firms attempt to manage policy uncertainty. Improved CSR performance can reduce firms’ exposure to policy uncertainty which indicates that CSR commitment can deliver insurance-like benefits. The findings highlight the value of CSR commitments during uncertain times.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Policy Uncertainty, Gubernatorial Election, Hedging Strategy

JEL Classification: G32, G38, G30, M14, D80

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Daoju and Colak, Gonul and Shen, Jianfu, Lean against the Wind: the Effect of Policy Uncertainty on a Firm's Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy (February 2, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4346931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4346931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
677
RANK
556,453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies