Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meme Corporate Governance

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper 23-009

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 681/2023

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 23-17

Southern California Law Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2023 Last revised: 6 Nov 2024

Dhruv Aggarwal

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Albert H. Choi

University of Michigan Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yoon-Ho Alex Lee

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

In 2021, several publicly traded companies, such as GameStop and AMC, experienced a dramatic influx of retail investors in their shareholder base. This Article analyzes the impact of the “meme stock surge” phenomenon on the companies, particularly with respect to their governance outcomes and structures. The paper presents three principal findings. First, as a preliminary matter, we show how the “meme stock” frenzy was affected by the introduction of the commission-free trading platform, such as Robinhood, in 2019. We show empirically that the meme stock companies experienced a larger trading volume when commission-free trading was widely introduced. Second, we examine how the influx of retail shareholders has directly affected the governance outcomes at the meme stock companies. The main finding is that, notwithstanding the promise of more active shareholder base, meme stock companies have experienced a significant decrease in participation by their shareholders with respect to voting, and shareholder proposals under Rule 14a-8 have also been extremely limited (non-existent in most meme stock companies). Third, we examine other popular governance metrics—such as ESG and board diversity indices—and show that while the diversity index has not improved, the ESG measure has gotten worse for the meme stock companies. While limited to meme stock companies, our findings show that the sudden influx of retail shareholders at these companies have not translated into more “democratic” governance regimes.

Keywords: Meme Stock, Retail Investors, Corporate Governance, Shareholder Voting, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Dhruv and Choi, Albert H. and Lee, Yoon-Ho Alex, Meme Corporate Governance (October 31, 2024). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper 23-009, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 681/2023, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 23-17, Southern California Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4347885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4347885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E G See , Toby Mathis
How Much Did Hedge Funds Lose on GameStop?, INFINITY INVESTING Posted: 2021
Melvin Eventually
Capital would shut down a little more than a year later. See Reuters, Melvin Capital to Shut After Heavy Losses on Meme Stocks, Market Slump, CNN , volume 12 Posted: 2022-05-19
For a detailed exposition of how the GameStop saga unfolded in January of 2021, see generally Jill E. Fisch
GameStop and the Reemergence of the Retail Investor, 102 B.U. L. REV Posted: 2022
E G See , Gamestop
While it is reasonable to expect most meme stock companies to raise capital during moments of meme surges, our EDGAR search of SEC filings shows that only two companies-GameStop and AMC Entertainment-took advantage of meme surges and made offerings. Other meme stock companies may have chosen not to take advantage of meme surges out of the concern that they may be blamed for knowingly selling shares at an
BLOOMBERG , volume 9 Posted: 2021-04-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,658
RANK
45,273
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies