Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiemployer Pension Plans: Disclosure and Recognition Requirements, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, and Firm Responses

31 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2023

Bryan Brockbank

Oklahoma State University

William C. Schwartz

Oklahoma State University

Craig A. Sisneros

Oklahoma State University

Date Written: July , 2022

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to describe the unique features and risks associated with multiemployer pension plans and to discuss the looming implications inherent in these plans to (1) users of financial statements (including pension plan participants and creditors), (2) regulators (including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation), and (3) managers of firms involved in these plans. Comingling of plan assets and potential withdrawal penalties in multiemployer pension plans create a “last firm standing” moral hazard problem. Significant underfunding of these plans coupled with solvency issues within the arm of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation responsible for insuring multiemployer plans should pose a significant warning sign to accounting professionals and investors, but especially to the vulnerable retirees expecting benefits from these plans upon retirement.

Keywords: Multiemployer pension plans, defined benefit pension plans, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, underfunding of pension plans

JEL Classification: M10, M41, M48, M54

Suggested Citation:

Brockbank, Bryan and Schwartz, William C and Sisneros, Craig A., Multiemployer Pension Plans: Disclosure and Recognition Requirements, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, and Firm Responses (July , 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4348256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4348256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
662,989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies