Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation Comment Letters: SEC Preferences and Contract Design

56 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2023 Last revised: 26 Feb 2025

Rachel Geoffroy

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Sophia Hamm

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Brent Schmidt

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 19, 2025

Abstract

We examine the SEC's revealed preferences in issuing executive compensation comment letters (CLLs). While low disclosure quality factors strongly predict the likelihood a firm receives a CCL, so too do high visibility and opportunism in compensation, suggesting that the SEC’s preferences extend beyond disclosure issues. We also document increases in pay-for-performance and the use of relative performance evaluation (RPE) after CCL receipt, consistent with the SEC exercising discretion in issuing CCLs to promote disciplining of firms’ compensation practices. The changes to contract design are concentrated in cases where CCL issuance was likely driven by the SEC targeting highly visible or opportunistic firms, indicating that the SEC’s non-disclosure-related preferences are associated with these changes. Our results are driven by significant, attention-drawing CCLs, which is consistent with a plausible investor attention channel for CCLs’ effects. Further analyses reveal that CCLs (i) lead to increased use of performance objectives and more comparable performance benchmarking peers in grant-level contracts, (ii) have spillover effects for peers with low existing RPE, and (iii) result in improvements in investment efficiency and profitability. Our findings highlight the role of SEC preferences in shaping the effects of CCLs on executive compensation.

JEL Classification: M46, G38, J33

Suggested Citation:

Geoffroy, Rachel and Hamm, Sophia and Schmidt, Brent, Compensation Comment Letters: SEC Preferences and Contract Design (February 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
A Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z Guo , L Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
RANK
230,777
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies