Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inter-Firm Connections, Alliance Formation and the Value Created by Alliances

Quarterly Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2023

Yun Liu

Claremont Colleges - Keck Graduate Institute

Tomas Mantecon

University of North Texas

Sabatino Silveri

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Wei Sun

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 7, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the impact of inter-firm connections on alliances. We find that both professional connections and social connections, borne out of board interlocks, employment ties and educational ties, increase the likelihood of alliance formation. In addition, the market reacts more favorably to alliance announcements in the presence of such connections and this positive valuation effect increases with the degree of information asymmetry between the partner firms. Our findings are consistent with inter-firm connections creating value because they facilitate the flow of information between partner firms, thereby reducing moral hazard concerns and the risk of ex-post opportunistic behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yun and Mantecon, Tomas and Silveri, Sabatino and Sun, Wei, Inter-Firm Connections, Alliance Formation and the Value Created by Alliances (February 7, 2023). Quarterly Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
H Adobor
Trust as sensemaking: the microdynamics of trust in interfirm alliances
Journal of Business Research , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 330 - 337 Posted: 2005
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
D Avramov , T Chordia , G Jostova , A Philipov
Credit ratings and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 469 - 499 Posted: 2009
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt
Small and medium-size enterprises: Access to finance as a growth constraint
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 30 , issue 11 , p. 2931 - 2943 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
613
RANK
268,675
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies