Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Do CEOs with Financial Background Matter for the Success of Newly Public Firms?

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2023 Last revised: 12 Oct 2025

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Panagiotis Loukopoulos

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Geoffrey Wood

Western University

Date Written: February 8, 2023

Abstract

We uncover strong evidence that newly public firms run by financial expert CEOs have a lower probability of involuntary delisting and a longer survival time in the aftermarket. This result is robust to alternative definitions of long-term viability and endogeneity concerns. Our cross-sectional analysis reveals that the positive effect of financial expert CEOs on IPO survival is more pronounced in large and complex firms but weaker in dynamic settings. Additional tests show that CEOs with a career background in finance gain better access to the primary equity market than other domain experts, as evidenced by a more efficient price discovery process and greater financial visibility in the aftermarket. Furthermore, these CEOs are associated with more efficient post-IPO outcomes which lie at the core of their skills-set, such as capital expenditures and acquisitions, rather than R&D projects, which are typically outside their domain of expertise. 

Keywords: Initial Public Offerings, Financial Expert CEOs, Underpricing, IPO Survival, Post-IPO Performance, Cognitive Entrenchment

JEL Classification: G3, G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Loukopoulos, Georgios and Loukopoulos, Panagiotis and Wood, Geoffrey,

Do CEOs with Financial Background Matter for the Success of Newly Public Firms?

(February 8, 2023). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
W Ahmad , R Jelic
Lockup Agreements and Survival of UK IPOs
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5-6 , p. 717 - 742 Posted: 2014
J Almandoz , A Tilcsik
When Experts Become Liabilities: Domain Experts on Boards and Organizational Failure
Academy of Management Journal , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1124 - 1149 Posted: 2015
S Amini , Johan S Pour , E Mohamed , A
Employee Welfare Social Capital and IPO Firm Survival
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice , volume 47 , issue 6 , p. 2174 - 2204 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
RANK
446,506
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies