Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Planet, People, Profit – and Paying Taxes? Sustainable Institutional Investors and Corporate Tax Avoidance

50 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2023 Last revised: 17 Mar 2023

Sina Willkomm

University of Cologne

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

I investigate whether sustainable institutional investors influence their investee firms’ corporate tax avoidance. My results suggest that higher sustainable institutional ownership mitigates the tax avoidance of investee firms. In contrast, the level of ownership by non-sustainable institutional investors is positively associated with tax avoidance. Further analyses reveal that the effect of sustainable institutional ownership on investees’ tax behavior has developed over time, concurrently with recent developments that have promoted tax as an environmental, social, and governance (and thus sustainability) component. Cross-sectional tests examine the heterogeneity in different characteristics of this investor type and the relevance of ownership concentration. My findings suggest that sustainable institutional investors are a distinct group of corporate owners that plays a role in curbing firms’ tax avoidance and that efforts that support the integration of tax responsibility into sustainable finance can foster this impact.

Keywords: Sustainability, Sustainable Investing, Sustainable Finance, Tax Avoidance, Investors, Institutional Investors, ESG, CSR

JEL Classification: G23, G30, H26, M14, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Willkomm, Sina, Planet, People, Profit – and Paying Taxes? Sustainable Institutional Investors and Corporate Tax Avoidance (February 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
325,744
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies