Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Taxes Impede Merger and Acquisition Activity? Evidence from Private Corporations

51 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2023

Erin Henry

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Jennifer Luchs-Nunez

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - College of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 9, 2023

Abstract

We study the effect of corporate taxes on mergers using tax stimulus acts that reduce corporate taxes for S corporations. S corporations generally face corporate tax on gains arising from the sale of the S corporation, or of its assets, if it was previously a C corporation. We fail to find consistent evidence that corporate tax reductions increase the likelihood of S corporation acquisition, but some evidence of acquisition price decrease. Overall, results suggest the tax changes did not achieve the desired goal of increased acquisition activity at an estimated cost to the government of $2.45 billion.

Keywords: S corporations; Corporate tax; Mergers; Asset sales; Tax policy; Lock-in effect; ARRA; ATRA; SBJA; PATH Act

JEL Classification: G34, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Erin and Luchs-Nunez, Jennifer and Utke, Steven, Do Corporate Taxes Impede Merger and Acquisition Activity? Evidence from Private Corporations (February 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4352814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4352814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
469,965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies