Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO inside debt and the use of leverage as a takeover defense

63 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2023 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Lan Phuong Nguyen

Finance Department - The University of Adelaide

Date Written: December 5, 2023

Abstract

I find that the target firms of unsuccessful takeovers whose CEOs hold inside debt make significantly larger leverage increases during the offer years but not afterwards. The finding is robust to an endogeneity test using CEO compensation practices in geography-based and IPO-year-based peers as instrumental variables. Further analyses show that these target firms make no significant share repurchases while experiencing less negative stock reactions to withdrawn takeover offers and stronger performance improvements afterwards. These results support the hypothesis that CEO inside debt might have facilitated the use of leverage as a takeover defense among the target firms of failed takeovers.

Keywords: Leverage, Bankruptcy Vulnerability, Takeover, Executive Compensation, Inside Debt, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Lan Phuong, CEO inside debt and the use of leverage as a takeover defense (December 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4352384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4352384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A Agrawal , T Nasser
Blockholders on boards and CEO compensation, turnover and firm valuation
Quarterly Journal of Finance Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , R A Walkling
Executive careers and compensation surrounding takeover bids
The Journal of Finance , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 985 - 1014 Posted: 1994
A M Albuquerque
Do growth-option firms use less relative performance evaluation?
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 60 Posted: 2014
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
552,669
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies