Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG and the Demand for State Tax Incentives

Forthcoming, Florida Tax Review, Fall 2023

71 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2023 Last revised: 8 Aug 2023

Mark J. Cowan

Boise State University -Department of Accountancy

Joshua Cutler

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 7, 2023

Abstract

This article argues that a business which embeds environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations in its strategy should consider whether seeking or accepting targeted state and local economic development incentives (which we refer to as “state tax incentives”) is consistent with that strategy. The outcome of that consideration will vary by locality, incentive package, and strategy. But given the demonstrated negative impact of state tax incentives on government finances and the community, most ESG-minded companies should either forgo them or cooperate with the state in crafting incentives that benefit both the company and the community. A well-crafted ESG reporting standard on this topic can help guide companies towards such win-win incentives and help them credibly communicate their approach to investors and other stakeholders. This article proposes that companies, investors, and governments should lobby ESG standard-setters to create an effective reporting standard, and we offer some recommendations for its characteristics. We believe this is the first article to examine state tax incentives in the context of ESG and the first to suggest that the demand for state tax incentives can be reduced as more companies (and their investors) realize that taking incentives is inconsistent with their ESG strategies. All prior attempts to curtail state tax incentives have targeted the supply of state tax incentives, by seeking to encourage or force states to limit their use. These attempts have been unsuccessful, in part, because they relied on persuading political actors to stop taking actions that they believe are in their own self-interest. In contrast, a demand side, company- and investor-driven approach may be more successful, because applying an ESG framework requires companies to act in their own interest, while better taking into account long-term costs and benefits. This article explains the problems that have resulted from state and local tax incentives and the various failed efforts to curtail them; reviews the emerging concept of ESG; applies the literature on tax avoidance and corporate social responsibility to state tax incentives; provides a basic outline for a state tax incentive ESG reporting standard; highlights the strategic benefits that will accrue to a company that takes a more deliberate approach to deciding whether to seek and accept state tax incentives; and identifies issues at the intersection of ESG and state tax incentives that are ripe for future research.

Keywords: State taxation, ESG, State Tax Incentives

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Cowan, Mark J. and Cutler, Joshua, ESG and the Demand for State Tax Incentives (August 7, 2023). Forthcoming, Florida Tax Review, Fall 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4355083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Executive Suite (metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Posted: 1954
Jannace
, volume 173
Id
Larry Fink
Larry Fink's 2016 Letter to CEOs
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,377
RANK
157,252
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies