Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Misconduct at Ricoh India: A Case Study of Falsified Accounts and the Consequences of Corporate Governance Failure

Asian Journal of Economics, Finance and Management, 8(4): 34-42, 2022; Article no.AJEFM.1193

Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Baranidharan Subburayan

School of Business and Management, Christ University

Amirdha Vasani Sankar

SRM Institute of Science and Technology

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

In 2016, Ricoh India, a subsidiary of the Japanese multinational company Ricoh, admitted that its accounts had been "falsified" and estimated a loss of Rs 1,123 crore for the fiscal year ending March 31st, 2016. An internal investigation revealed that the company's financial statements for the years 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 had been altered to inflate revenues and profits. As a result, the company's CEO and CFO resigned and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) launched an investigation. In 2017, SEBI imposed a fine of Rs 31.5 crore on the company and two of its top executives for violating securities laws and regulations. This case serves as a reminder of the importance of proper financial reporting and internal controls within a company to maintain transparency and integrity, and retain the trust of investors and regulators

Keywords: Falsified accounts, internal investigation, inflation of revenues, violation of securities laws, transparency, integrity, financial reporting, internal controls

Suggested Citation:

Subburayan, Baranidharan and Sankar, Amirdha Vasani, Financial Misconduct at Ricoh India: A Case Study of Falsified Accounts and the Consequences of Corporate Governance Failure ( 2022). Asian Journal of Economics, Finance and Management, 8(4): 34-42, 2022; Article no.AJEFM.1193, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4356187
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
902
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies