Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental, Social, and Governance Performance and Corporate Sustainable Development in China

J. Glob. Bus. Trade Vol. 19 No. 1 (February 2023), 91-107

17 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Xuan Wang

Shandong Women’s University

Shanyue Jin

Gachon University - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: February 5, 2023

Abstract

Purpose – With the acceleration of global integration and the deepening of the market economy, sustainable development is receiving unprecedented attention worldwide. Corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance is one of the most important ways of promoting sustainable development. Companies with good ESG performance excel both operationally and financially, maintaining their competitive advantage and achieving sustainable corporate growth. This study examines the impact of ESG performance on corporate sustainability and identifies factors that influence this relationship from the perspective of external governance structures.

Design/Methodology/Approach – This study investigates the impact of corporate ESG performance on corporate sustainability using a fixed-effects model with Chinese A-share listed companies from 2011 to 2020. It also explores the moderating roles of external audit quality, the shareholding ratio of institutional investors, and analyst attention on the impact of ESG performance on corporate sustainability.

Findings – The findings show that corporate ESG performance can contribute to sustainable development. External audit quality, the shareholding ratio of institutional investors, and analyst attention have positive moderating effects on ESG performance, which can contribute to sustainable development.

Research Implications – This study enriches theoretical research in ESG performance and sustainability, and identifies external governance factors that contribute to the relationship between the two. Consequently, it provides suggestions for listed company growth and sustainability practices.

Keywords: analyst attention, ESG performance, external audit quality, shareholding ratio of institutional investors, sustainable development

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xuan and Jin, Shanyue, Environmental, Social, and Governance Performance and Corporate Sustainable Development in China (February 5, 2023). J. Glob. Bus. Trade Vol. 19 No. 1 (February 2023), 91-107, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4356170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
RANK
394,837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies