Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy and Business Model Disclosures in Annual Reports: The Role of Legal Regime

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2023

Vasiliki E. Athanasakou

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Abdlmutaleb Boshanna

Dalhousie University

Natalia Kochetova

Saint Mary’s University - Sobey School of Business

Georgios Voulgaris

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

We examine the role of legal regime in the use and usefulness of management disclosures relating to firm strategy and the business model (SBM disclosures). We conduct our analysis in the bijural Canadian setting, where firms operate under either common law (CL) or French Civil law (FCL), depending on where they are headquartered. We find that SBM disclosures vary in length and usefulness across legal regimes. Quebec firms operating under a FCL legal regime produce less extensive SBM disclosures, but such disclosures have a more pronounced information asymmetry-reducing effect, as compared to those of firms operating in CL jurisdictions. Our analysis introduces legal liability risk related to the legal regime as an additional factor that shapes SBM disclosures in the annual reports. Our findings can be of interest to the IASB and the national accounting standard setters as they develop SBM disclosure-related implementation guidance across various jurisdictions.

Keywords: strategy and business model reporting, information asymmetry, Canada

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Athanasakou, Vasiliki E. and Boshanna, Abdlmutaleb and Kochetova, Natalia and Voulgaris, Georgios, Strategy and Business Model Disclosures in Annual Reports: The Role of Legal Regime (February 15, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies