Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Essays on Incentive Contracts, M&As, and Firm Risk

230 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Suwei An

Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management; Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: February 14, 2023

Abstract

The three essays collected in this PhD dissertation concern agency costs, incentive contracts, mergers and acquisitions, and firm risk. The first essay demonstrates that manager sentiment, a managerial trait proxy for managerial optimism, can incur agency costs. The second and third essays state incentive contracts as an effective way to suppress agency problems and reduce agency costs. Specifically, the second essay demonstrates that firms using relative performance evaluation exhibit lower stock price crash risk and the third essay finds that relative performance evaluation increases long-term acquisition performance.

Suggested Citation:

An, Suwei, Essays on Incentive Contracts, M&As, and Firm Risk (February 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies