Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Japanese Corporate Groupings (Keiretsu) and the Informativeness of Earnings

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting 12(2):133-159, 2001

36 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Edward B. Douthett

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Kooyul Jung

Ulsan National Institute of Science and and Technology (UNIST)

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of Japanese corporate groupings, keiretsu, on the informativeness of earnings. Keiretsu firms maintain close financial and personal ties through cross-shareholding, credit holding, interlocking corporate directorates, and various business transactions. We propose that the strong interrelations of the keiretsu ownership structure enhance the informativeness of earnings through efficient monitoring of managerial performance.

Our empirical results show that keiretsu firms have higher earnings response coefficients than those of non-keiretsu firms, the earnings response coefficient increases as the strength of the keiretsu relationship increases, and discretionary accruals by keiretsu firms are smaller than discretionary accruals of non-keiretsu firms. All of these results suggest that the monitoring ability of the keiretsu improves the informativeness of earnings.

Keywords: Keiretsu, Japan, earnings informativeness, monitoring

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Douthett, Edward B. and Jung, Kooyul, Japanese Corporate Groupings (Keiretsu) and the Informativeness of Earnings ( 2001). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting 12(2):133-159, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
630
RANK
702,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies