Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalised development costs and future cash flows: The effect of CEO overconfidence and board gender diversity

ADAM SMITH OBSERVATORY OF CORPORATE REPORTING PRACTICES Working Paper No.1/2023

71 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023 Last revised: 4 Apr 2024

Khadija Almaghrabi

King Abdulaziz University

Richard Slack

Durham Business School

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: April 4, 2024

Abstract

Capitalisation of development costs mandated under IAS 38 is an important accounting issue conveying a signalling effect to users of accounting information regarding future economic benefits. Using a longitudinal sample of UK firms, firstly, we examine the adverse effect of CEO overconfidence on the association between capitalised development costs and future economic benefits (proxied by cash flows). Secondly, we examine the moderating influence of board gender diversity on this association. We find that the association between capitalised development costs and future cash flows, while positive, is significantly weaker for firms with higher levels of CEO overconfidence, implying that the signalling effect of capitalisation is diluted. Moreover, our results show that board gender diversity significantly moderates the managerial bias associated with overconfidence helping to restore the neutrality of accounting and the strength of signalling with regards to future benefits.

Keywords: Research and Development (R&D), Development Costs, Capitalisation, Overconfidence, Board gender diversity

Suggested Citation:

Almaghrabi, Khadija and Slack, Richard and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis, Capitalised development costs and future cash flows: The effect of CEO overconfidence and board gender diversity (April 4, 2024). ADAM SMITH OBSERVATORY OF CORPORATE REPORTING PRACTICES Working Paper No.1/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Francesco Mazzi , Richard Slack , Ioannis Tsalavoutas , Fanis Tsoligkas
R&D disclosures and the informativeness of future earnings
Forthcoming in ABACUS · 68 Pages · Posted: 22 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 5 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 337
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
286,433
1 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies