Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not Like the Rest of Us? How CEO Celebrity Affects Quarterly Earnings Call Language

Pollock, T., Ragozzino, R., and Blevins, D. Not Like the Rest of Us? How CEO Celebrity Affects Quarterly Earnings Call Language. Journal of Management, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2023 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Timothy Pollock

Penn State University - Smeal College of Business

Roberto Ragozzino

Nova School of Business and Economics

Dane Blevins

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Date Written: February 14, 2023

Abstract

In this study we explore whether celebrity CEOs use certain types of language that affect stakeholders’ perceptions more than non-celebrity CEOs during earnings calls. We focus specifically on the sociocognitive processes associated with possessing celebrity, and how they are likely to influence celebrity CEOs’ language use. We argue that the sociocognitive outcomes associated with the confidence and sense of authority resulting from the CEOs’ celebrity will increase the likelihood they use more relatively positive, concrete, certain, and self-regarding language, all of which can influence stakeholders’ reactions. We also distinguish between A-list and B-list celebrities, and expect greater celebrity will result in greater language attribute use. Based on 8,203 quarterly earnings call transcripts involving celebrity and non-celebrity CEOs, we find general support for our hypotheses. A-list celebrities employ all four language attributes more than both B-list celebrities and non-celebrities, but B-list celebrities only differ from noncelebrities with respect to some language attributes. Our study contributes to the celebrity literature by enhancing our understanding of how achieving celebrity, and the degree of celebrity achieved, affects CEOs’ behaviors. We also contribute to the corporate communications literature by demonstrating how the sociocognitive processes and outcomes associated with CEO celebrity affect language use that can influence stakeholders’ confidence in what the CEO says, even if it reveals no new information.

Keywords: Celebrity, Top Management Teams/Upper Echelons, Content Analysis, Strategic Leadership, Cognitive Perspectives

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Pollock, Timothy and Ragozzino, Roberto and Blevins, Dane, Not Like the Rest of Us? How CEO Celebrity Affects Quarterly Earnings Call Language (February 14, 2023). Pollock, T., Ragozzino, R., and Blevins, D. Not Like the Rest of Us? How CEO Celebrity Affects Quarterly Earnings Call Language. Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
265,489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies