Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modelling the Probability of Asset Value Covenant Violations in Shipping Bank Loans

26 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Nikos Kagkarakis

University of Piraeus - Department of Maritime Studies

Dimitris A. Tsouknidis

Athens University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper aims to model the probability of a borrower violating an asset value covenant in a shipping bank loan agreement, where the main collateral (the vessel) exhibits very high price volatility. We estimate a panel data regression model using the largest dataset of shipping bank loans examined to date. The results reveal that loan-specific variables, particularly the amount of loan, advance ratio, and existence of a holding company guarantee, are the most important factors affecting the probability of observing an asset value covenant violation. These results are important for ship-lending financial institutions because (i) vessel prices serve as the main collateral in bank loan agreements and (ii) vessel prices are significantly larger in magnitude and much more volatile when compared to other widely examined asset-backed loan agreements, such as mortgages.

Keywords: bank loans, asset value covenant, credit scoring models, shipping

JEL Classification: G21, G33, C25

Suggested Citation:

Kagkarakis, Nikos and Tsouknidis, Dimitris A., Modelling the Probability of Asset Value Covenant Violations in Shipping Bank Loans (February 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
596,846
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies