Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intelligence Network: Examine the Competitive Intelligence Network and Its Role on Organizational Performance

International Journal of English Language, Education and Literature Studies (IJEEL) ISSN: 2583-3812, Vol-1, Issue-5, Nov-Dec 2022

18 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2023

Zaid Ismail

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Swran Jwmaa

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Saif Younus

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Baban Othman

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Muhammed Rashad

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Idrees Kanabi

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Diyar Jamil

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Rozhgar Mahmood

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 01, 2022

Abstract

Over the past two decades, the fundamentals of organizations have undergone a tremendous shift due to changes and uncertainty. To remain competitive in the face of both internal and external challenges, organizations have begun to actively monitor their surroundings in order to better understand the possibilities and threats that exist in such settings. The purpose of this research is to examine the function of competitive intelligence networks in the decision-making processes of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the Kurdistan area of Iraq. Researchers, however, used five variables of competitive intelligence networks (network extensiveness, third-party strategy, homophily, issue awareness, and promotion effort) to gauge the direct influence on company performance at SMEs. In addition, the investigation was able to delve into the oblique function of competitive intelligence networks by using them as a mediator between company performance and competitive intelligence. Researchers in the Kurdistan area of Iraq utilized hierarchical multiple regression and the Sobel test to examine the impact of a competitive intelligence network on the financial success of small and medium-sized enterprises. Five elements of a competitive intelligence network were used to quantify the direct effect on SME performance (extensiveness network, third-party strategy, homophily, issue awareness, and promotion effort). In addition, the researchers utilized the competitive intelligence network as a mediator to quantify its effect on company performance. This allowed the analysis to delve into the indirect influence of the competitive intelligence network. The following competitive intelligence network aspects were used to analyze the direct and indirect impact of competitive intelligence networks on SME performance: network extensiveness, third-party strategy, homophily, problem awareness, and promotional effort.

Keywords: Network, competitive intelligence, Organizational Performance

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Zaid and Jwmaa, Swran and Younus, Saif and Othman, Baban and Rashad, Muhammed and Kanabi, Idrees and Jamil, Diyar and Mahmood, Rozhgar, Intelligence Network: Examine the Competitive Intelligence Network and Its Role on Organizational Performance (November 01, 2022). International Journal of English Language, Education and Literature Studies (IJEEL) ISSN: 2583-3812, Vol-1, Issue-5, Nov-Dec 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
772,295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economics of Innovation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies