Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Access and Financing of Private Firms

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-97

39 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023 Last revised: 21 Mar 2023

Vidhan K. Goyal

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Finance

Alessandro Nova

Bocconi University - Department of Finance

Laura Zanetti

Bocconi University - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 5, 2011

Abstract

How does capital market access affect the capital structure decisions of firms? To examine this question, we compare the financing decisions of a large sample of private and public companies from 18 different European countries. We find significant differences in the leverage policies of private and public firms. Private firms have much higher leverage ratios than public firms. In particular, the leverage of private firms is more negatively related to past profitability, consistent with their less active adjustment. Other evidence corroborates sluggish adjustment and suggests that private firms face a significantly higher cost of accessing external capital markets. When we compare private and public firms in countries that differ on creditor rights and contract enforceability, we find more pronounced differences in the leverage policies of private and public firms in countries that are strong on legal rights and their enforcement. In countries with weak rights and poor enforcement, the financing policies of public firms begin to resemble those of private firms.

Keywords: capital structure, private firms, trade-off theory, capital market access

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Goyal, Vidhan K. and Nova, Alessandro and Zanetti, Laura, Capital Market Access and Financing of Private Firms (April 5, 2011). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-97, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,740
RANK
580,030
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies