Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Performance and Banks’ Funding Costs

21 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Alin Marius Andries

Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi; Romanian Academy - Institute for Economic Forecasting

Nicu Sprincean

Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iași; National Institute for Economic Research, Romanian Academy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

In this study, we explore whether and to what extent Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors impact banks’ funding costs. Using a sample composed of 493 banks located in 39 advanced and emerging economies over the 2003-2020 period, we find that banks benefit from incorporating ESG practices into financial decisions, enjoying lower costs of raising interest-bearing liabilities (total cost of funds), as well as reduced costs of attracting deposits. All ESG dimensions are responsible for this outcome in the case of total cost of funds, whereas for the cost of deposits the Environmental pillar appears to have an insignificant impact, suggesting that depositors do not value banks' environmental commitments, but rather their social performance and corporate governance quality. Furthermore, the empirical evidence indicates that only large banks and those located in developed countries reap the benefits of increased ESG performance in terms of reduced financing costs.

Keywords: Banks, Funding costs, ESG ratings

JEL Classification: G21, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Andries, Alin Marius and Sprincean, Nicu, ESG Performance and Banks’ Funding Costs (February 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,529
RANK
99,960
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies