Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Case of Stakeholder Ownership: Theoretical Insights into the Niche Persistence of the Cooperative and Mutual Form Across Advanced Economies

(2022) 38 Australian Journal of Corporate Law 94-131

46 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Michael Duffy

Monash University

Chenxia Shi

Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS)

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

Stakeholder ideas of the late twentieth century challenged the doctrine that corporate managers work exclusively for the interests of equity owners. Yet markets have long been delivering alternative models where workers, customers or suppliers own the firm and run it in their interests. Stakeholder ownership in the form of customer, supplier or worker owned cooperatives and mutuals also incidentally addresses possible managerial conflict of interest in duties to multiple constituencies by establishing obligations to a single species of stakeholder. This article examines the development of such forms locating them within the stakeholder paradigm and within the modern economy. It provides theoretical insights into the persistence of stakeholder owned enterprises with transaction cost, capital and market analyses, noting additional behavioural factors working both for and against their persistence. The article finds that comparative organisational advantages of cooperative and mutual forms appear to exist in particular niche service and product lines involving longer term contracts and weaker market governance due to asymmetric information or where there is excessive market power of other entities in the supply chain. It also examines the trend to demutualisation postulating the operation of a market for organisational forms and imperfections in such market.

Keywords: cooperatives, mutuals, stakeholder theory, corporate governance, demutualisation, agency theory, transaction costs economics

JEL Classification: K19, K20, K22, G22, G23, G31, N30, N37, L16, L20, L22, L31, L44, L97, M14, M38, N00

Suggested Citation:

Duffy, Michael and Shi, Chenxia, The Curious Case of Stakeholder Ownership: Theoretical Insights into the Niche Persistence of the Cooperative and Mutual Form Across Advanced Economies (February 15, 2023). (2022) 38 Australian Journal of Corporate Law 94-131, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies