Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selective Private Disclosure: Is Silence Golden?

64 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023 Last revised: 12 Sep 2023

Anthony Joffre

University of Miami, School of Business Administration, Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: September 11, 2023

Abstract

I present evidence that market participants use Reg FD filings to learn about and price protect against firms' material selective private disclosure ("SPD") activity. Using an expectation of SPD activity based on observable firm events associated with informed trading, I document that market participants price protect whenever Reg FD filings deviate (positively or negatively) from that expectation. Intuitively, market participants price protect more when Reg FD filings exceed their expectations, consistent with higher-than-expected Reg FD filings being interpreted as an indication of higher-than-expected SPD activity. However, market participants also price protect more when Reg FD filings fall short of their expectations, suggesting that market participants do not interpret lower-than-expected Reg FD filings as a signal of lower-than-expected SPD activity, but rather as an indication that the firm has not transparently disclosed that activity. Collectively, my analyses suggest that, although imperfect Reg FD disclosure fails to curtail SPD ex-ante, it does provide useful information against market participants' expected benchmarks ex-post.

Keywords: Regulation FD, Information Asymmetry, Selective Private Disclosure

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48, G18

Suggested Citation:

Joffre, Anthony, Selective Private Disclosure: Is Silence Golden? (September 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen
Asset pricing with liquidity risk
Journal of financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 375 - 410 Posted: 2005
A Agrawal , S Chadha , M A Chen
Who is afraid of reg fd? the behavior and performance of sell-side analysts following the sec's fair disclosure rules
The Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
A S Ahmed , Schneible Jr , R A
The impact of regulation fair disclosure on investors' prior information quality-evidence from an analysis of changes in trading volume and stock price reactions to earnings announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
K D Allee , B J Bushee , T J Kleppe , A T Pierce
Did the siebel systems case limit the sec's ability to enforce regulation fair disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , p. 1235 - 1291 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,329
RANK
253,593
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies