Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intergenerational Transmission of Trauma and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from the Great Chinese Famine

Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Syed Tauseef Ali

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - School of Accounting

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

We propose and test whether the directly imprinted board chairs (i.e., board chairs that directly experience the trauma of the Great Chines famine at the age of 6 to 16) transfer their traumatic imprints to their offspring and how the presence of these offspring on the board influence corporate innovation. The transmission of trauma imprints from one generation (i.e., survivors) to the succeeding generation is a crucial and unexplored aspect of the imprinting theory, which needs careful insights and thorough investigation. Based on listed Chinese family firms from 2003 to 2016, we find that the presence of indirectly imprinted offspring on the board is associated with a lower probability of corporate innovation. Further, we observe that the negative effect is stronger when the board chair has strong power but weaker if the board chair belongs to a patriarchal region. Our results are persistent in various robustness checks and endogenous tests. Overall, our research extends the domain of imprinting theory from a single generational perspective to an intergenerational perspective by arguing that the offspring also suffer from an indirect transmission of trauma imprints which affects their corporate decision-making later in life.

Keywords: Intergenerational transmission of trauma; indirectly imprinted offspring; board chair power; patriarchy; corporate innovation

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Syed Tauseef, Intergenerational Transmission of Trauma and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from the Great Chinese Famine (February 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359493
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economics of Innovation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies