Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Failures Due to Behavioral Factors

11 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2023

Dr Gopalakrishnan Ramasubramanian

Ramasubramanian & Associates; GR Resources Legal

Date Written: February 16, 2023

Abstract

In today's world of corporate environment, the traditional corporate governance theories seems to be far removed from the real-life corporate governance and environment. A number of Corporate failures/ scandals in recent times help illustrate the flaws of the various traditional approaches.

There are enough Listing guidelines, Regulatory approaches, Statute and Penalty / punishment to deter Governance failure. However, the most important variable in determining whether a Corporate is fairly and properly governed is Human and human behavior. There is no specific tool to determine this human behavior.

A company is the common platform of various stakeholders, such as customers, employees, investors, shareholders etc.. It is an instrument that can attract huge capital for doing business. Every transaction in a company should be fair and transparent to its stakeholders. Any company which has good Corporate Governance and an effective Board of Directors (the board which includes independent directors) attract investors, ensure investment, increases stakeholder wealth and has a big role to play in county building and social responsibility. Hence, Independence of the Board is critical to ensure that the board fulfills its role objectively and holds the management accountable to the company.

Suggested Citation:

Ramasubramanian, Gopal, Corporate Governance Failures Due to Behavioral Factors (February 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4360876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4360876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
906
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,748
RANK
59,968
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies