Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Protection: The Role of Multiple Large Shareholders

Barroso Casado, R., Burkert, M., Dávila, A., and Oyon, D. (2016) Shareholder Protection: The Role of Multiple Large Shareholders. Corporate Governance, 24: 105– 129. doi: 10.1111/corg.12131.

52 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Raúl Barroso

IESEG School of Management; IESEG School of Management, Univ. Lille, CNRS, UMR 9221 - LEM - Lille Economie Management

Michael Burkert

University of Fribourg - Department of Business Administration

Antonio Dávila

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Daniel Oyon

HEC Lausanne, Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 22, 2015

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: This paper addresses the effect of having multiple large shareholders on shareholder protection. More specifically, we examine to what extent this effect depends on whether such large shareholders are beneficiary or fiduciary.

Research Findings/Insights: Analyzing longitudinal, hand-collected data covering Swiss listed companies, we find that having several large shareholders leads to overall higher shareholder protection (i.e. adoption of more formal corporate governance mechanisms). This is because large shareholders have an interest in putting more formal governance mechanisms in place when there is another large shareholder that might try to extract rents at the expense of others. Moreover, we find that this effect is driven by the presence of several beneficiary shareholders, i.e. shareholders that invest their own wealth in the company in contrast to dispersed ownership and fiduciary shareholders, i.e. shareholders acting on behalf of others.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Building on recent developments in agency theory, this paper contributes to the corporate governance literature by empirically showing that potential “principal-principal” conflicts among large shareholders lead to overall better shareholder protection in terms of more formal governance mechanisms being adopted. This finding contrasts with situations in which there is only one large shareholder that does not have an interest in strengthening formal corporate governance. Our findings imply, however, that the characteristics of the large shareholders matter: Fiduciary shareholders in the Swiss setting are mostly passive buy-and-hold shareholders and therefore do not engage extensively in improving shareholder protection. Beneficiary shareholders, in contrast, directly intervene in the governance of the firm (i.e. governance by voice), so that in the presence of multiple beneficiary shareholders, more formal governance mechanisms help to monitor not only management but the other large shareholders as well. In addition, more formal governance mechanisms serve as a platform to coordinate their diverging objectives.

Practitioner Implications: We demonstrate the influence of a second (or several) large beneficiary shareholder(s), on corporate governance and the benefit to all shareholders. In addition, we propose the strengthening of governance mechanisms as a platform to reconcile conflicting interests among prominent shareholders and contribute to the debate on the allocation of certain voting privileges to long-term shareholders.

Keywords: Shareholder Protection, Corporate Governance; MLS; Multiple Large Shareholders

Suggested Citation:

Barroso, Raúl and Burkert, Michael and Dávila, Antonio and Oyon, Daniel F., Shareholder Protection: The Role of Multiple Large Shareholders (June 22, 2015). Barroso Casado, R., Burkert, M., Dávila, A., and Oyon, D. (2016) Shareholder Protection: The Role of Multiple Large Shareholders. Corporate Governance, 24: 105– 129. doi: 10.1111/corg.12131., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4360268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4360268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
388,737
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies