Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Value Index (SVI): A Holistic Approach to Purpose, People, Planet and Prosperity (4P’s)

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2023

Rashed Hasan

School of Business, George Mason University

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

This concept paper proposes a Stakeholder Value Index (SVI) framework that holistically measures values that stakeholders – employees, customers, suppliers, communities, planet and shareholders – bring to business, which itself is a stakeholder in our collective pursuit for purpose, people, planet, and prosperity (4P’s). Publicly available data is collected to assess large public companies’ impact on these stakeholders. The aim is to validate this framework and eventually mainstream such a framework and an associated index. The fragile condition of our planet, and the economic and social disparities in our local and global societies, call for urgent discussion, research, and actions combined with impactful measures and proactive monitoring. This conceptual paper advances methods and measures to assess how large public companies contribute to such adverse impacts and can pivot to become a positive force for the world. Our limited findings to date validate that the proposed SVI framework is workable and can be presented as a holistic measure on stakeholder capitalism for companies. This SVI also compares favorably with other measures proposed by various organizations regarding ESG, CSR and similar indices. It can also generate useful analyses and provide insights for companies to act on.

Keywords: stakeholder capitalism, Business Roundtable, corporate governance, employee well-being, environmental stewardship, ESG, CSR, profit sharing, fair trade, global supply chain, corporate ethics, shareholder primacy

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Rashed, Stakeholder Value Index (SVI): A Holistic Approach to Purpose, People, Planet and Prosperity (4P’s) (February 15, 2022). George Mason University School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4360043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4360043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
407,330
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies