Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did CECL Improve Banks' Loan Loss Provisions and Earnings Quality during the COVID-19 Pandemic?

36 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023

Pietro Bonaldi

Carnegie Mellon University

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Lavender Yang

Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: January 2023

Abstract

The Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) standard took effect in 2020 during the onset of the unprecedented global pandemic. Proponents of CECL argue that the regulation can provide timelier provisions, while others are concerned about the potential for heightened reported earnings volatility. In this paper, we investigate the impact of CECL on the accuracy of banks’ loan loss provisions and on earnings quality. We empirically document that starting in the second half of 2020, banks adopting CECL report larger reserve releases and are more likely to report negative loan loss provisions than non-adopters. Using a difference-in-difference design we find that during the first two quarters of 2020, the dispersion of analysts earnings forecasts and the level of discretionary earnings are both larger for adopting banks than for non-adopters. We interpret these as evidence of less accurate provisions and lower earnings quality which is consistent with greater accounting noise and reporting bias caused by the adoption of CECL during high economic uncertainty.

Keywords: CECL, Expected Loss Model, Loan Loss Provisioning, Banking Regulation

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bonaldi, Pietro and Liang, Pierre Jinghong and Yang, Lavender, Did CECL Improve Banks' Loan Loss Provisions and Earnings Quality during the COVID-19 Pandemic? (January 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4360356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4360356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,913
RANK
129,363
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies