Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cult Violence in Nigeria and Corporate Social Responsibility in Oil Producing Communities

Local Environment, 28(5), pp. 619-644 (2023).

39 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2023 Last revised: 19 Apr 2023

Joseph I. Uduji

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Elda N. Okolo-Obasi

University of Nigeria - Institute of Development Studies; Development Strategy Centre Nigeria

Simplice Asongu

African Governance and Development Institute

Date Written: February 17, 2023

Abstract

Since the beginning of 2014, reports of cult violence have increased sharply in the Nigeria’s oil producing communities. Hence, we set out to examine the role of corporate social responsibility (CSR) from multinational oil companies (MOCs) in mitigating the spread of cult group violence in the region. A total of two thousand four hundred respondents were sampled across the nine states of the Niger Delta. Results from the use of estimated logit model reveal that MOCs via Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) are in good position to deter the aggression and rise of cult violence using interventions for youth as a priority target group mechanism. This calls for pro-youth capacity building programmes, specially designed to equip the clusters with appropriate skills required for peaceful engagement and to complement government efforts in the planning and implementation of the development agenda for their respective communities. In turn, this will contribute towards enhancing a peaceful environment for doing business in the Niger Delta region.

Keywords: environmental justice, cult violence, corporate social responsibility, oil producing communities, sub-Saharan Africa

Suggested Citation:

Uduji, Joseph I. and Okolo-Obasi, Elda N. and Okolo-Obasi, Elda N. and Asongu, Simplice, Cult Violence in Nigeria and Corporate Social Responsibility in Oil Producing Communities (February 17, 2023). Local Environment, 28(5), pp. 619-644 (2023). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4362522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4362522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
RANK
812,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies