Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Family Ownership Matter? Evidence of the Payment Method and Market Reaction to M&A Deals in Taiwan

International Journal of Accounting & Information Managemen, Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2023

Yousry Ahmed

University of Bristol; Zagazig University

Mohamed Elsayed

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Yuru Chen

University of Bristol

Date Written: February 17, 2023

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines the effect of family ownership on the payment method of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) deals. It also investigates the market reaction around the announcement of these M&A deals.

Design/methodology/approach – Archival data of M&A deals of a sample of Taiwanese listed firms during 2008-2018 are collected and examined using probit, event study and OLS models. We address the endogeneity concern using the two-stage least squares (2SLS) statistical technique and Heckman’s two-step estimation method.

Findings – We find that family firms are more likely to use cash as an exchange medium in M&A deals to avoid the problem of diluting control rights. We further find that family firms receive a positive market reaction around the announcement of M&A deals relative to non-family counterparts. Our empirical results support the notion that family ownership is a value-creation structure.

Practical implications – Our findings provide additional evidence-based insights into the debate about family ownership with the aim of informing policy and offering practical recommendations to expand the US-based literature.

Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to provide empirical evidence on the impact of family ownership on payment method choice in M&A activities in Taiwan. It also provides novel evidence that family firms experience value gains when taking M&A investment decisions relative to non-family firms.

Keywords: Family firm, Family ownership, Cash acquisitions, Cumulative abnormal returns (CARs), Mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G16, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Yousry and Elsayed, Mohamed and Chen, Yuru, Does Family Ownership Matter? Evidence of the Payment Method and Market Reaction to M&A Deals in Taiwan (February 17, 2023). International Journal of Accounting & Information Managemen, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4362530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4362530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
682,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies