Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Ethics: Where Are We? Understanding the Dynamics of Companies during International Crises and Establishing the Best Form of Leadership to Resist Difficulties of Societies

38 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2023 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Frans Lavdari

Sapienza University of Rome; Luiss Guido Carli University

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

Crises put a lot of pressure on companies. Many production companies find themselves in constant difficulty as they have to decide what is best to do to safeguard their company. Quite often, some companies decide to abandon ethical behaviour in order to pursue profit, as was seen during the financial crisis of 2008. But has the SARS-COVID-19 pandemic crisis had the same effect on corporate CSR? The aim of this research is to understand what the differences between the financial crisis of 2008 and the pandemic crisis from COVID-19 of 2020 are, demonstrating how during the second crisis, companies have shown a growing ethical behaviour compared to the first. Research shows that companies have managed to balance a CSR towards companies and families torn apart by health and economic difficulties and the need for corporate profit. Furthermore, the research demonstrates that Ethical Leadership is currently the best form of strategic Leadership that can be adopted by the Stakeholders of the future.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Global Financial Crisis 2008, COVID-19 pandemic, Ethic and Strategic Leadership, Multinationals.

JEL Classification: M14, M21, F23, L21, L26

Suggested Citation:

Lavdari, Frans, Business Ethics: Where Are We? Understanding the Dynamics of Companies during International Crises and Establishing the Best Form of Leadership to Resist Difficulties of Societies (November 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4362364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4362364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
841
RANK
394,837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Leadership Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies