Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact Investment Deal Flow and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 'Mind the Gap?'

Accounting and Finance, (2023) https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.13068

32 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2023

Syrus Islam

Auckland University of Technology

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Date Written: February 18, 2023

Abstract

We examine the linkage between the available impact investment deals and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to ascertain to what extent those deals are likely to achieve the aims of the SDGs, that of a sustainable and prosperous world. Drawing on 292 available deals, we find that most deals are directly or indirectly linked to only four of the 17 SDGs and are concentrated in two regions of the world. Accordingly, we conclude that impact investing has a significant imbalance in the SDG-dealflow-region nexus. Without addressing such an imbalance, impact investing will only have a limited impact on overall SDG attainment. Therefore, we also share some thoughts on addressing the imbalance.

Keywords: Impact Investing, Impact Investment Deal, Sustainable Development Goals, Sdg-Dealflow Gap, Geographic Region

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Syrus and Rahman, Asheq, Impact Investment Deal Flow and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 'Mind the Gap?' (February 18, 2023). Accounting and Finance, (2023) https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.13068, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4362794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4362794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
472,791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies