Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Regulatory Non-Disclosure: The Case of the Missing Form D

63 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2023

Kathleen Weiss Hanley

Lehigh University - College of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Qianqian Yu

Lehigh University

Date Written: February 18, 2023

Abstract

We document that the majority of venture-capital backed financing rounds are not accompanied by a Form D filing. We show that filing behavior is predictable and is related to both the ability to fly below the radar and the benefits of withholding information. Financing rounds that are harder to hide, larger offerings and those previously covered by media, are more likely file a Form D while financing rounds by firms with greater proprietary information, early stage firms or companies in biotech, pharmaceutical, and high tech industries, are less likely to file a Form D. We document one adverse outcome to the filing of a Form D, patent litigation, and show that protection from this type of litigation through the enactment of anti-patent trolling laws subsequently increases the rate of filing. Firms are less likely to file a Form D once the form is required to be filed on Edgar. Finally, we note that reliance on Regulation D is stronger as the firm nears an exit from the private market. Our results suggests that some firms view even minimal disclosure and regulatory oversight as costly.

Keywords: venture capital, disclosure, regulation, Form D, private firms, proprietary information, capital raising, securities issuance

JEL Classification: g24, g38, k22, g3

Suggested Citation:

Hanley, Kathleen Weiss and Yu, Qianqian, Strategic Regulatory Non-Disclosure: The Case of the Missing Form D (February 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4363027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4363027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
433
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,965
RANK
153,959
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies