Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Investigations, Media Coverage, and Audit Opinions

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2023 Last revised: 10 Mar 2023

Xuelian Li

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Liang Dong

Hunan University of Technology and Business; University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Hung Wan Kot

University of Macau

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: February 11, 2023

Abstract

After an investigation of an audit engagement is announced, does media coverage of the investigation affect the involved auditor’s behaviors in his/her other (noninvestigated) engagements? This paper attempts to answer this question using data on Chinese listed firms during the 2002–2019 period. We find that an auditor is more likely to issue modified audit opinions in his/her non-investigated engagements if the investigation attracts a high level of media coverage, as media coverage arouses suspicions in stakeholders and causes the auditor to fear potential regulatory action, litigation, and reputational damage. This augmenting effect of media coverage exists only when the information environment of the non-investigated engagement is opaque, when the non-investigated engagement has a relatively high level of earnings management, when the involved auditor is the review auditor, when the involved auditor is not a busy auditor, and when the news comes from an opinion leader. The results are robust after controlling for general media attention, auditor-level attributes, and alternative measurements of key variables. Our results suggest that the media can play an effective role in broadening the sphere of influence of regulatory actions.

Keywords: Audit opinion, Individual auditor, Media coverage, Regulatory investigation, Spillover effect

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xuelian and Dong, Liang and Kot, Hung Wan and Liu, Ming, Regulatory Investigations, Media Coverage, and Audit Opinions (February 11, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4364584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4364584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
538,134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies