Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants Audit Report Delay and Its Effects on Investor Reaction in Public Companies in Indonesia

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.1 (2023)

17 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2023

Krishna Kamil

Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Ekonomi Indonesia (STEI)

Tri Widyastuti

Universitas Bhayangkara Jakarta Raya

Nurmala Ahmar

Universitas Pancasila

Zulkifli

Universitas Pancasila

Date Written: February 21, 2023

Abstract

The audit report delay cause problems of performance appraisal for all audited companies following the investors’ response negatively to the audited report. The consequences of these report delay make distrust of stakeholders, so the delay of audited report need to be minimized in order for all companies to be trusted in financial statement reports. The aim of this research is to explore the determinants of audit reporting delay in Indonesian stock exchange, especially on development boards. The exploration is then continued by examining the effects of audit report delay in order to respond to investors' negative impressions. Method of research used in this research is the exposure of facts on testing the application of GCG, financial performance. The factors used in this research were audit report delay and auditor’s opinion, investor response proxy by share price. The outcome of the research indicates that GCG and legal compliance pressures have a negative and significant effect on audit reporting delay, while financial performance has a positive and significant impact on audit reporting delay, moderating factors such as legal compliance pressures and KAP size has no effect on audit reporting delay. Audit reporting delay and independent auditor reports affect investor response, while legal compliance pressure and financial performance through audit reporting delay affects investor response.

Keywords: Audit Reporting Delay, Legal Compliance Pressure, Restatement, Company Size, Number of Subsidiaries, Audit Firm Size, Auditor Opinion, Investor Reaction

Suggested Citation:

Kamil, Krishna and Widyastuti, Tri and Ahmar, Nurmala and , Zulkifli, Determinants Audit Report Delay and Its Effects on Investor Reaction in Public Companies in Indonesia (February 21, 2023). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.1 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4365874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,095
RANK
170,545
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies