Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Falls Prey to the Wolf of Wall Street? Investor Participation in Market Manipulation

Center for Financial Studies Working Paper No. 704, 2023

84 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2023 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Steffen Meyer

Aarhus University - Department of Finance; Danish Finance Institute

Maximilian Muhn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Eugene F. Soltes

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Andreas Hackethal

Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

Price distortions created by so-called “pump-and-dump” schemes are well known, but relatively little is known about the investors in these frauds. By examining 470 “pump-and-dump” schemes and a large data set of trading records for over 110,000 individual investors from a major German bank, we provide comprehensive evidence on the participation rate, magnitude of the investments, the losses, and the characteristics of the individuals who invest in such schemes. Participation is quite common with nearly 8% of active retail investors participating in at least one “pump-and-dump” losing on average nearly 30%. Next, we identify several distinct types among participating investors, some of which (i.e., speculating day trader) should not be viewed as falling prey to the schemes. Recognizing this heterogeneity is key when designing investor protections because we find investor types respond differently to market manipulation. We also show that portfolio composition and past trading behavior better explain scheme participation than demographics. Lastly, we document longer lasting effects on participating investors that go beyond the immediate financial losses.

Keywords: Market manipulation; Pump-and-dump schemes, Securities regulation; Fraud; Investor protection; Lottery stocks; Household finance; Penny Stocks

JEL Classification: D14, G11, G18, K42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Leuz, Christian and Meyer, Steffen and Muhn, Maximilian and Soltes, Eugene F. and Hackethal, Andreas, Who Falls Prey to the Wolf of Wall Street? Investor Participation in Market Manipulation (September 30, 2023). Center for Financial Studies Working Paper No. 704, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4365160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4365160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
R K Aggarwal , G J Wu
Stock Market Manipulations
Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 1915 - 1953 Posted: 2006
F Allen , D Gale
Stock-Price Manipulation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 503 - 529 Posted: 1992
S Antilla
Retirement Fallout from a Penny-Stock Scam: 'We Don't Do Hardly Anything'. The Street Posted: 2016-04-01
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
22,351
2 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies