Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Hedge or Not to Hedge: The Impact of ASU 2017-12 on Banks’ Hedging Activities and Earnings Volatility

41 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2023

Albian Albrahimi

Les Roches Global Hospitality Education

Date Written: February 21, 2023

Abstract

On August 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an Accounting Standards Update (ASU) is intended to improve accounting for hedging activities and enhance derivative usage transparency. In this paper, I examine whether banks change the accounting designation of derivatives after ASU 2017-12. Moreover, I investigate the new standard's impact on earnings volatility within different groups of derivative users. I split the sample banks into hedgers and non-hedgers based on using derivatives for hedging purposes. Using detailed quarterly data on financial derivatives for bank holdings, my results show that the level of earnings volatility and the ASU 2017-12 influences the banks' decisions to use hedge accounting. In assessing the impact within groups of derivative users, I find evidence that banks that designate derivatives for hedge accounting purposes exhibit a lower level of earnings volatility around the adoption of ASU 2017-12 as opposed to banks that elect not to apply hedge accounting. Furthermore, the differences in earnings volatility become more pronounced in the post-adoption period, whereas I failed to detect any differences in cash flow volatility among the two groups. I also find that banks that elect to use hedge accounting for the first time after adopting the standard update exhibit a decrease in earnings volatility. Overall, the findings confirm the FASB's initial intention to introduce the accounting standard's update.

Keywords: Hedge Accounting, Derivatives, Hedging, Earnings Volatility

JEL Classification: G32, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Albrahimi, Albian, To Hedge or Not to Hedge: The Impact of ASU 2017-12 on Banks’ Hedging Activities and Earnings Volatility (February 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4365457 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4365457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
593
RANK
614,231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies