Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving Towards Consensus: An Examination of Trends in Investment Fair Values

59 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2023 Last revised: 1 Apr 2025

Chris E. Hogan

Michigan State University; Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Sarah B. Stuber

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

A primary argument against fair value measurement is the lack of verifiability, where verifiability is defined as consensus in measurement by independent parties. In this study, we evaluate this argument by investigating trends in the consensus of reported fair values. Using a rich dataset that provides fair values of identical securities across all holders, we find that consensus has increased between 2005 and 2019 as evidenced by reductions in the fair value range and standard deviation. Further analyses indicate that enhanced data availability through public dissemination of trade information is a potential mechanism for why this trend exists. Additionally, we document that securities subject to testing by larger external auditors with more resources to take advantage of enhanced data availability are associated with a stronger trend in increasing consensus. Our results further show that trends toward greater consensus are stronger when management has a heightened opportunity to record a biased estimate, and also exist when examined at the insurer-security level using the difference from the mode reported value. While conventional arguments express concern over management’s ability to manipulate fair values, our results demonstrate patterns consistent with improved verifiability.

Keywords: fair value, investment security, verifiability, trends, insurance companies JEL classifications: G22

JEL Classification: G22, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hogan, Chris E. and Hogan, Chris E. and Stein, Sarah E. and Stuber, Sarah, Moving Towards Consensus: An Examination of Trends in Investment Fair Values (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4365771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4365771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
J Altamuro , L H Chen
Level 3 fair value transfers: The impact of oversight and incentives on the reclassification decision. Working paper Posted: 2022
A Austin , T Carpenter , M Christ , C Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
D Ayres
Fair value disclosures of level three assets and credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 635 - 653 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
970
RANK
401,016
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies