Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is U.S. CEO Compensation Broken?

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6929-23

22 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2023 Last revised: 16 Jun 2023

John E. Core

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Wayne R. Guay

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Randall S. Thomas

Vanderbilt University - Law School; Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

Critics of U.S. executive pay practices have raised four major concerns: (1) executive pay is too high; (2) CEO contracts do not provide strong enough incentives to increase value (i.e., there is too little pay-for-performance); (3) options and other equity-based pay provide windfalls, large payoffs that reflect good luck more than good performance; and (4) CEOs have too much freedom to unwind their incentives. This negative, and increasingly mainstream, assessment of the state of U.S. executive compensation has led many observers to conclude that executive pay practices are fundamentally flawed and that systemic reform is needed. We shed light on these perceived problems with executive pay and, in so doing, provide some balance to what we find to be an increasingly one-sided debate. Our key points are that: (1) CEOs' stock and option holdings provide powerful incentives to increase value, and this is true regardless of whether or not annual pay varies with firm performance; (2) recent growth in annual pay may well be appropriate to compensate CEOs for recent growth in incentive risk borne through their stock and option holdings, and due to the increasing size and complexity of U.S. firms; (3) when viewed as a combination of market risk and firm-specific risk, conventional (that is, unindexed) stock and options may provide a simultaneous solution to shareholders' demand for executive rewards tied to company performance, and executives' preference to diversify their wealth; (4) U.S. CEOs show little evidence of widespread unwinding of incentives, and in cases where CEOs have too much incentives, it is appropriate to allow and encourage the CEO to exercise options and sell stock to rebalance her portfolio.

Keywords: CEO compensation, stock options, equity incentives, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Core, John E. and Guay, Wayne R. and Thomas, Randall S. and Thomas, Randall S., Is U.S. CEO Compensation Broken? ( 2005). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6929-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4365193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4365193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
240,980
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies