Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Polluting Firms Disclosing Enough on the Environment?: A Case of An Emerging Economy

Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research Volume 12 Issue 2 April 2023

13 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2023

Vaishali Narolia

University of Delhi

Ritu Sapra

University of Delhi

Date Written: November 05, 2022

Abstract

This study attempts to investigate the environmental reporting practices of companies classified under the ‘red’ category industries in India based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. Content analysis is applied to evaluate the environmental disclosures of companies in seven polluting industrial sectors. The study uses independent sample t-test, analysis of variance, and Tukey’s post-hoc tests on a sample of 52 companies listed on the National Stock Exchange during the period 2020-21. Statistically significant differences were revealed in the disclosure levels of companies based on size, industry, and environmental certifications. The cement industry made the highest environmental disclosure, whereas the chemicals and pharmaceutical industries disclosed the least. It was found that companies revealed maximum information on their environmental initiatives and energy consumption, whereas the least disclosures were made on environmental impact mitigation. The study provides an implication for strict adoption of systematic reporting framework, especially for polluting industries, irrespective of their size, to bring uniformity, reliability, and responsibility in their practice.

Keywords: Environmental Reporting, Content Analysis, Global Reporting Initiative, Red-Category Industries, Sustainability

JEL Classification: M41, Q 01, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Narolia, Vaishali and Sapra, Ritu, Are Polluting Firms Disclosing Enough on the Environment?: A Case of An Emerging Economy (November 05, 2022). Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research Volume 12 Issue 2 April 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4366790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
RANK
446,506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies