Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misstatement Verifiability and Managers’ Earnings Warning Decisions

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2023 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Jihun Bae

City University London

Jaeyoon Yu

Central Michigan University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the verifiability of misstatements in prior forward-looking earnings disclosures contributes to managers’ decisions to issue earnings warnings. Using securities class action lawsuits from 1996 to 2019 pertaining to forward-looking earnings disclosures, we find that earnings warnings are positively associated with the verifiability of misstatements in such disclosures. The results survive entropy balancing and firm-fixed effects to mitigate endogeneity concerns. The positive relation between earnings warnings and misstatement verifiability is more pronounced for firms 1) with a general counsel in the top management team and 2) that face higher ex-ante litigation risk, and less pronounced for firms whose managers engaged in insider selling during the class action lawsuit period. We also show that earnings warnings help to increase the likelihood of a lawsuit dismissal (i.e., lowering litigation costs) when the lawsuit involves misstatements that are more (rather than less) verifiable. Taken together, our findings suggest that managers issue earnings warnings when it helps to reduce litigation costs, consistent with the notion that managers can achieve a greater reduction in litigation costs by issuing earnings warnings.

Keywords: Earnings Warnings, SEC Rule 10b-5, Litigation Costs, Private Information, Misstatement Verifiability

JEL Classification: K41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Jihun and Yu, Jaeyoon, Misstatement Verifiability and Managers’ Earnings Warning Decisions (October 1, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4366713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4366713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A N Masli
The effect of general counsel prominence on the pricing of audit services
J. Account. Publ. Pol , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2019
R Basu , J P Naughton , C Wang
The regulatory role of credit ratings and voluntary disclosure
cccount. Rev , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2022
B K Billings , W L Buslepp
Strategic management guidance and insider trading activities
Journal of J. Account. Publ. Pol , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 104 Posted: 2016
M B Billings , M C Cedergren
Strategic silence, insider selling and litigation risk
J. Acc. Econ , volume 59 , issue 2-3 , p. 119 - 142 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
653
RANK
672,649
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies