Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Financial Consumers Discipline Bad Lenders? 

53 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2023 Last revised: 7 Aug 2025

Mark J. Flannery

University of Florida - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate

K. Philip Wang

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Cathy Zhang

University of Florida

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether market discipline complements regulatory efforts to protect financial consumers. We find that mortgage borrowers on average do not penalize unscrupulous lenders identified by the CFPB and state regulators’ enforcement actions following their public disclosure. Borrower inaction appears to stem from their lack of awareness regarding most enforcement actions: they do penalize lenders when the enforcements are widely covered in the press. The lenders penalized by borrowers subsequently improve their service quality. In contrast, the lenders who escape borrower discipline do not, and instead, adopt new company names. Overall, our findings suggest that financial consumers can effectively penalize lenders and change their behavior, but public disclosure alone is not enough to elicit their discipline.

Keywords: market discipline, disclosure awareness, financial consumers, enforcement actions

Suggested Citation:

Flannery, Mark Jeffrey and Wang, Philip and Zhang, Cheng, Do Financial Consumers Discipline Bad Lenders?  (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4366393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4366393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
S Agarwal , G Amromin , I Ben-David , S Chomsisengphet , D D Evanoff
Predatory lending and the subprime crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 52 Posted: 2014
R Bartlett , A Morse , R Stanton , N Wallace
Consumer-lending discrimination in the FinTech Era
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 56 Posted: 2022
S G Badrinath , P J Bolster
The role of market forces in EPA enforcement activity
Journal of Regulatory Economics , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 181 Posted: 1996
T A Begley , A Purnanandam
Color and credit: Race, regulation, and the quality of financial services
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 65 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
218,186
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies