Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biased Executives

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 116

38 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2023 Last revised: 2 Mar 2023

Ahmed Tahoun

London Business School

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Menghan Zhu

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Date Written: February 23, 2023

Abstract

We examine the presence of biased executives in publicly-listed US companies. Executives are considered biased when others in the firm do not share their beliefs. We document that biased executives are present in as much as 30 percent of our broad-based sample. We also document that biased executives have steeper pay-for-performance incentives than non-biased executives (even when compared to those within the same firm). We show that hiring biased executives is correlated with contractibility problems, the need for information collection and experimentation, and the firm's uncertainty about the actions of external stakeholders. Finally, we explore the longevity of biased executives in the firm and show that those executives who continue to reveal bias after joining the firm tend to stay longer in the firm compared to those who conform to the majority beliefs in the firm.

Keywords: Biased hires, contracting, employee selection

Suggested Citation:

Tahoun, Ahmed and van Lent, Laurence and Zhu, Menghan, Biased Executives (February 23, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 116, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4368099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4368099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
202,123
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies