Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Collaborations, Decarbonization and Equity Value Creation

Forthcoming, Corporate Governance, https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-06-2022-0241

Posted: 1 Mar 2023 Last revised: 3 Mar 2023

Carolin Schellhorn

Saint Joseph's University

Date Written: February 23, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: Opportunities for shareholder value creation from deep decarbonization in fossil fuel and related industries may be unlocked with a permanent change in corporate governance practices. The purpose of this study is to highlight the conceptual links between corporate collaborations, decarbonization and equity value creation to enable the large-scale reallocation of funds necessary to halve carbon emissions by the end of this decade.

Design/methodology/approach: Consistent with shareholder value maximization, the author uses the constant dividend growth framework to show that a permanent change in corporate governance practices can impact expectations of future cash flows and required rates of return. This study includes a simulation to explore how perpetual corporate collaborations on decarbonization that influence the key equity value drivers can add value to the equity of collaborative firms.

Findings: Perpetual corporate collaborations with key stakeholders focused on equity value drivers hold great potential for accelerating the reallocation of funds to low-carbon assets. Simulation results suggest that relatively small changes, especially in required rates of return, may result in substantial increases in equity values for collaborative leaders in deep decarbonization.

Originality/value: This study identifies new sources of shareholder value from long-term corporate collaborations with key stakeholders on deep decarbonization. A collaborative focus on important equity value drivers can attract capital also to hard-to-abate industries and initiate sharp cuts in carbon emissions. Corporate governance practices thus reformed render shareholder value creation incentive compatible with rapidly decarbonizing global supply chains, making it possible to meet climate action goals by 2030.

Keywords: Climate change, collaboration, corporate governance, decarbonization, equity capital, shareholders, stakeholders, value creation

Suggested Citation:

Schellhorn, Carolin, Corporate Collaborations, Decarbonization and Equity Value Creation (February 23, 2023). Forthcoming, Corporate Governance, https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-06-2022-0241 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4368730
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies