Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Cost of Debt Reflect the Value of Quality Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Efforts and Disclosure?

Mahmoudian, F., Lu, J., Yu, D., Nazari, J.A., Herremans, I.M. (2022). Does cost of debt reflect the value of quality greenhouse gas emissions reduction efforts and disclosure, Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation

47 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2023

Fereshteh Mahmoudian

Beedie School of Business, Simon Fraser University

Jing Lu

University of Guelph

Dongning Yu

Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University) - Ted Rogers School of Management

Jamal A. Nazari

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business

Irene M. Herremans

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: November 15, 2022

Abstract

Using a sample of North American companies reporting to the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), we investigate whether details of companies’ carbon management practices reduce the cost of debt associated with greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, with credit risk ratings as a proxy for cost of debt. Specifically, employing structural equation modeling (SEM) for the main analysis and three-stage least squares (3SLS) regression for further in-depth analysis, we simultaneously, yet separately, study the effect of detailed GHG emissions performance and assured GHG emissions disclosure on the cost of debt. Based on the theory of voluntary disclosure, our findings suggest that providing details about the implementation of many diverse GHG emissions reduction projects and assuring GHG emissions disclosure provides integrity to carbon management practices and therefore decreases cost of debt. Furthermore, we find that a reduced cost of debt assists companies to invest more in GHG reduction related projects. We recommend that further research considers aspects of voluntary disclosure that add to its integrity.

Keywords: Carbon management, GHG emissions disclosure, Cost of debt, GHG performance, Assurance, GHG reduction projects

JEL Classification: M41, M49, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Mahmoudian, Fereshteh and Lu, Jing and Yu, Dongning and Nazari, Jamal A. and Herremans, Irene M., Does Cost of Debt Reflect the Value of Quality Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Efforts and Disclosure? (November 15, 2022). Mahmoudian, F., Lu, J., Yu, D., Nazari, J.A., Herremans, I.M. (2022). Does cost of debt reflect the value of quality greenhouse gas emissions reduction efforts and disclosure, Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4368772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4368772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
411,549
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies