Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Guidance and Monetary Policy Transmission in the Eurozone

60 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023 Last revised: 16 Oct 2025

Mansoor Afzali

Hanken School of Economics

Gonul Colak

University of Sussex ; Hanken School of Economics

Sinh Thoi Mai

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics and Management,Universidade de Lisboa

Pavel G. Savor

DePaul University - Kellstadt Graduate School of Business; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 24, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether management guidance influences the sensitivity of stock returns to monetary policy shocks in the eurozone. We find that issuing guidance prior to European Central Bank announcements attenuates the negative relation between monetary policy surprises and stock returns. This moderating effect is stronger when guidance is strategically timed and among firms facing higher information asymmetry and greater dependence on external financing. Specific guidance characteristics—such as sentiment, confidence, precision, credibility, and disaggregation—all impact the stock price response to monetary policy shocks. The role of guidance in mitigating monetary policy shocks is more pronounced in countries with stronger shareholder protections. Combined, our findings are consistent with the balance sheet channel of monetary policy transmission, which predicts that management guidance reduces firms’ exposure to monetary policy shocks by alleviating information asymmetries.

JEL Classification: E52, E58, G12, G14, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Afzali, Mansoor and Colak, Gonul and Mai, Sinh Thoi and Savor, Pavel G., Management Guidance and Monetary Policy Transmission in the Eurozone (February 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4369645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4369645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 12 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
C Altavilla , L Brugnolini , R S Gürkaynak , R Motto , G Ragusa
Measuring euro area monetary policy
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 108 , p. 162 - 179 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Accounting quality and the transmission of monetary policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2019
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
576,053
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies