Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing the External Auditing and Corporate Corruption: A Case Study of Family Businesses

International Journal of Advanced Engineering, Management and Science, 8(12) -2022

13 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Diyar Jamil

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Rozhgar Mahmood

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Zaid Ismail

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Swran Jwmaa

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Saif Younus

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Baban Othman

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Muhammed Rashad

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Idrees Kanabi

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 26, 2022

Abstract

The failure of several large multinational corporations all over the world has resulted in a heightened interest in the development of suitable procedures that can curb the kinds of actions that might lead to the manipulation of financial reporting. According to the findings of the vast majority of studies, sudden failures of businesses can be traced to sudden alterations in the financial statements of those businesses, which are carried out by the administrations of those businesses and in accordance with their whims. This phenomenon is referred to as "corporate corruption." In addition, there were 94 participants who audited businesses as a part of this study, which was measured using a quantitative research approach. The researcher used a straightforward regression analysis to evaluate how well each of the three research hypotheses held up. According to the findings, the first research hypothesis, which stated that "There is a statistically significant relationship between the general standards of external auditing and corporate corruption practices in family businesses," had the highest value, while the second research hypothesis, which stated that "There is a statistically significant relationship between the general standards of external auditing and corporate corruption practices in family businesses," had the lowest value. The findings revealed that the first research hypothesis, which stated that "there is a statistically significant relationship between general standards of external auditing and corporate corruption practices in family businesses," received the highest value. The findings, however, revealed that the general norms of external auditing play the most beneficial role in minimizing instances of corporate corruption practices in family-owned enterprises.

Keywords: Corporate corruption, Financial Statements, Family Businesses, External Audit.

Suggested Citation:

Jamil, Diyar and Mahmood, Rozhgar and Ismail, Zaid and Jwmaa, Swran and Younus, Saif and Othman, Baban and Rashad, Muhammed and Kanabi, Idrees, Analyzing the External Auditing and Corporate Corruption: A Case Study of Family Businesses (February 26, 2022). International Journal of Advanced Engineering, Management and Science, 8(12) -2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4370916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
658,366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies