Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shifting from the Incurred to the Expected Credit Loss Model and Stock Price Crash Risk

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Mar 2023

Qinglu Jin

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Sirui Wu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Using a difference-in-differences (DID) design, this study examines the effect of shifting from the incurred credit loss model (ICL model) to the expected credit loss model (ECL model) on banks’ future stock price crash risk. We find that switching to the ECL model decreases the stock price crash risk of commercial banks. Inspired by Onali et al. (2021), we proceed with cross-sectional tests from the perspectives of opportunistic incentives, information environments, and compliance costs and find that the effect is more pronounced for (i) banks with less opportunistic incentives, proxied by state-owned property rights and managerial ownership; (ii) banks with opaque internal and external information environments, proxied by weak internal control, weak board governance, low analyst coverage, and short auditor tenure; and (iii) banks with lower implementation costs, proxied by less day-one impact and higher levels of accounting conservatism. Channel analyses show that banks increase their asset impairment provisions and the timeliness of loan loss recognition, and there is an increase in the value relevance of earnings and bank efficiency after the adoption of the ECL model. Overall, our evidence suggests that the flexibility of principle-based accounting standards influences banks’ stock price crash risk and provides implications that could be helpful to regulators and standard setters.

Keywords: IFRS 9, ECL model, Stock price crash risk

JEL Classification: M41, J88

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Qinglu and Wu, Sirui, Shifting from the Incurred to the Expected Credit Loss Model and Stock Price Crash Risk ( 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4371230
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Economics Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies