Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How resilient are firms’ financial reporting processes to the sudden loss of a CFO? Evidence from sudden deaths

52 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2023 Last revised: 16 Feb 2025

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

MaryJane Rabier

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: February 16, 2025

Abstract

We examine how resilient firms’ financial reporting processes are to the sudden death of a CFO—a plausibly exogenous shock that allows us to provide insights on the role of the CFO while abstracting away from the endogenous nature of CFO employment. We find that the likelihood of an adverse reporting event—a delayed SEC filing or ex post restatement—doubles in the year following the event, on average. The financial process is less resilient in more complex firms and more resilient in firms with stronger internal controls and highly educated employees. Sudden CEO deaths, in contrast, have no discernible impact on adverse financial reporting events. Collectively, our study highlights the value of the CFO on the financial reporting process as well as potential financial reporting benefits of CFO contingency plans.

Keywords: Chief Financial Officers, Financial Reporting Quality, Financial Reporting Resilience, Duress, Duress, Filing Delays, Restatements, Managerial Turnover, Internal Control Quality, Rank-and-File Employee Education

Suggested Citation:

McVay, Sarah E. and Rabier, MaryJane, How resilient are firms’ financial reporting processes to the sudden loss of a CFO? Evidence from sudden deaths (February 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4371327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4371327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The Financial Expertise of CFOs and Accounting Restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's My Style? The Influence of Top Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
G Becker
Investment in Human Capital: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 70 , issue 5 Posted: 1962
M Bennedsen , F Perez-Gonzalez , D Wolfenzon
Do CEOs Matter? Evidence from Hospitalization Events
The Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 1877 - 1911 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
144,509
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies