Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Punishment by Securities Regulators, Corporate Social Responsibility and the Cost of Debt

Gong, G., Huang, X., Wu, S., Tian, H., & Li, W. (2021). Punishment by securities regulators, corporate social responsibility and the cost of debt. Journal of Business Ethics, 171, 337-356.

Posted: 4 Mar 2023

Guangming Gong

Hunan University - Business School

Xin Huang

Hunan University - Business School

Sirui Wu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Haowen Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Wanjin Li

Independent

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether penalties issued to Chinese listed companies by securities regulators for violations of corporate law affect the cost of debt, and the moderating role of corporate social responsibility (CSR) fulfillment on this relationship. Our sample consists of firms listed on Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges from 2011 to 2017 and the data are collected from the announcements of China Securities Regulatory Commission. The findings are as follows: (1) punishment announcements by regulatory authorities increase the cost of debt; and (2) the effect of punishment announcements on the cost of debt is partially offset by prior CSR performance. These findings are shown to be robust. The reputation insurance effect of CSR is more pronounced in state-owned enterprises and in an institutional environment with low marketization, a weak legal environment, and low information transparency. The findings support the reputation insurance hypothesis of CSR and employ the cost of debt as a governance mechanism.

Keywords: Administrative punishment, Corporate violation, Debt financing, Corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Guangming and Huang, Xin and Wu, Sirui and Tian, Haowen and Li, Wanjin, Punishment by Securities Regulators, Corporate Social Responsibility and the Cost of Debt ( 2021). Gong, G., Huang, X., Wu, S., Tian, H., & Li, W. (2021). Punishment by securities regulators, corporate social responsibility and the cost of debt. Journal of Business Ethics, 171, 337-356., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4371791
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
314
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies