Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Half the Firms, Double the Profits: Public Firms' Transformation, 1996-2022

Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute – Law Working Paper No. 771/2024

55 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023 Last revised: 13 Oct 2024

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

The number of public firms in the United States has halved since the beginning of the twenty-first century, causing consternation among corporate and securities law regulators. The dominant explanations, often advanced by Securities and Exchange commissioners when considering policy initiatives, come from over- or under- corporate regulation of the stock market. The central legal explanation is that corporate and securities law has made the cost of being public too high. Conversely, goes the second legal explanation, capital-raising rules for private firms were once very strict but have loosened up. Private firms can now raise capital nearly as well as small- and medium-sized public firms. Either way, these views see legal imperatives as explaining the sharp decline in the public firm.

We challenge the implications of this thinking. While the number of firms has halved, public firms’ economic weight has not halved. To the contrary, the public firm sector is bigger by every other measure: total stock market capitalization is up greatly over the past three decades, profits are up, revenues are up, investment is up, and employment is up. Moreover, stock market capitalization, profits, revenues, and investment have not only increased but have all grown faster than the economy.

The second challenge we pose is whether the explanation for the changing configuration of the public firm sector lies primarily in legal explanations. In other policy circles—at the Federal Trade Commission or the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, for example—policymakers ask why American industry is so much more concentrated now, with fewer firms in most industries today than there were at the end of the twentieth century. Yet these policymakers bring forward antitrust and industrial organization explanations, not corporate or securities regulation. Little crossover exists between these two policymaking circles, one focusing on corporate and securities regulation (the SEC) and the other on competition (the FTC). We bring forward real economy changes that could readily explain the reconfiguration of the American public firm sector to one that is more profitable, more valuable, and with bigger but fewer firms. These real economy developments are largely tied to industrial organization via changes in antitrust enforcement or changes in the efficient scope of the firm. In a single article, this explanatory effort can only be exploratory. Multiple researchers in multiple efforts will be needed to explain which real economy forces have an impact and which do not. We begin this effort: There are fewer firms, but the firms are bigger, more profitable and often in more concentrated industries. We show why the legal explanation is unlikely to be the complete story for the package of changes over the past quarter-century and probably not even the most important one. Corporate policymakers should adjust appropriately.

Keywords: IPOs, public companies, corporate law, private equity, venture capital, securities regulation, merger guidelines, monopolization, concentration, Sarbanes-Oxley, antitrust

JEL Classification: G28, G30, G32, G34, G38, G18, K21, K22, L10, L12, L13, L40, L41, L43

Suggested Citation:

Roe, Mark J. and Wang, Charles C. Y., Half the Firms, Double the Profits: Public Firms' Transformation, 1996-2022 (May 16, 2024). Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute – Law Working Paper No. 771/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4372070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4372070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
See Murray , Z Frank , Jing Gao
The Changing Structure of Corporate Profits , volume 29 Posted: 1942
Mary Amiti , & Sebastian Heise , U S
Market Concnetration and Import Competition
REV. ECON. STUD
Susanto Basu
Are Price-Cost Markups Rising in the United States? A Discussion of the Evidence
J. ECON. PERSPS , volume 33 Posted: 2019
Shapiro
John Van Reenen, Increasing Differences between Firms: Market Power and the Macroeconomy , volume 72 , p. 79 - 80 Posted: 2018-08-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
961
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,453
RANK
55,289
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies