Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Result of COVID-19 on Internal Audit in the Portuguese

59 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2023

Paula Cristina de Almeida Marques

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Abstract

The aim of this study is to analyse how Covid 19 affected the work of internal audit in Portuguese hospitals and to understand the perception of auditors of hospital institutions in the Portuguese National Health Service (NHS) regarding the impact of the pandemic on their activity.The methodology adopted for this study was carried out through questionnaires and interviews. Information was also collected regarding the perceived changes in the nature of Internal Auditing work, the work stages, the services performed and the Information Technologies used, as well as the impact of teleworking on the performance of functions and the consequences that are expected to remain in the future.Practical implications - The results showed that most professionals considered that COVID-19 had a high impact on Hospital Internal Auditing. It was also found that most respondents are of the opinion that the pandemic has decreased the contribution of the activity to the organisation, essentially due to the difficulty in establishing contact with other Services of the hospital and due to remote work.

Keywords: Hospital Audit, COVID-19, NHS, health, Politce, strategic management

Suggested Citation:

Almeida Marques, Paula Cristina de, The Result of COVID-19 on Internal Audit in the Portuguese. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4372903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4372903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
RANK
772,295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies