Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CFO Career Concerns Matter? Evidence From IPO Financial Reporting Outcomes

Has been accepted and processed for production

Forthcoming at Journal of Corporate Finance; Accepted Manuscript

78 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2023 Last revised: 12 Dec 2023

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Panagiotis Loukopoulos

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yu Zhang

University College Dublin

Date Written: April 3, 2023

Abstract

We find that Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) with greater career concerns are more diligent and conservative in preparing financial statements during an Initial Public Offering (IPO). Additional tests exploiting exogenous variation in managerial career concerns suggest that our documented relations are not sensitive to unobservable omitted factors. Furthermore, we document that CFOs who are relatively more concerned about their future job prospects are more sensitive when there is greater scrutiny or higher litigation risk and are less likely to succumb to undue pressures from influential shareholders to exaggerate the firm's prospects. Finally, we show that CFOs with longer decision horizons prefer more transparency during the IPO process, which in turn, translates to superior post-IPO performance and better labor market outcomes than their counterparts. Overall, our findings indicate that career concerns play a disciplining role during IPOs and that CFOs exploit these high-visibility events to accelerate their career trajectory.

Keywords: JEL classification: M40, M41, M52 Chief Financial Officer, Career Concerns, Career Horizon, IPOs, Earnings Quality, Earnings Management, Labor Outcomes

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Loukopoulos, Georgios and Loukopoulos, Panagiotis and Zhang, Yu, Do CFO Career Concerns Matter? Evidence From IPO Financial Reporting Outcomes (April 3, 2023).

Has been accepted and processed for production

Forthcoming at Journal of Corporate Finance; Accepted Manuscript

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4373680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4373680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
140 References
V Acharya , S Myers , R Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
M Al Guindy
Corporate Twitter Use and Cost of Equity Capital
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 68 Posted: 2021
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO Tenure and Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
S Anagnostopoulou , D Gounopoulos , K Malikov , H Pham
Earnings Management by Classification Shifting and IPO Survival
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
330,062
1 Citations
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies