Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consensus Credit Ratings: A View from Banks

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2023 Last revised: 18 May 2024

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Alex Nekrasov

University of Illinois Chicago

N. Bugra Ozel

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 14, 2024

Abstract

While the production of credit ratings has long been limited mainly to rating agencies (CRAs), recent years have seen the growing popularity of consensus credit ratings crowdsourced from banks (i.e., bank ratings). We provide the first comprehensive examination of the properties and informativeness of bank ratings relative to CRA ratings. We find that bank ratings often deviate from CRA ratings, with over 60% of firm-months having different bank and CRA ratings. These deviations contain useful information. Bank ratings improve out-of-sample prediction of future defaults and CRA rating revisions and explain the cross-section of credit spreads. However, bank ratings do not improve out-of-sample prediction of credit excess returns, indicating that current prices incorporate bank rating information. Overall, our findings suggest that bank ratings are a useful supplement to traditional credit ratings.

Keywords: credit agency ratings, information dissemination, market reaction

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lourie, Ben and Nekrasov, Alexander and Ozel, N. Bugra and Zhu, Chenqi, Consensus Credit Ratings: A View from Banks (May 14, 2024). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4373633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4373633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
A S Ahmed , D Wang , N Xu
An empirical analysis of the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on determinants of credit ratings Posted: 2021
F Akbas , S Markov , M Subasi , E Weisbrod
Determinants and consequences of information processing delay: Evidence from the Thomson Reuters Institutional Brokers' Estimate System
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , issue 2 , p. 366 - 388 Posted: 2018
W Alissa , S B Bonsall Iv , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2-3 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
B Akins
Financial reporting quality and uncertainty about credit risk among rating agencies
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
314,223
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies