Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Equity Incentive Schemes and Corporate Innovation Outcomes: Evidence from China

38 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Edward Podolski

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Economics, Finance and Marketing; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Chunzi Jiang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines the role that managerial equity incentive schemes have on corporate innovation outcomes in developing economies. Utilizing a large and representative sample of Chinese publicly listed firms, we show that while managerial equity incentive schemes have a positive average effect on the number of patents generated, they have a negative average effect on the quality of new inventions. Further analysis reveals that the positive association between managerial incentives and patent volume only holds among firms with low ownership concentration and non-SOEs, while the negative association between managerial incentives and patent quality only holds among firms with high ownership concentration and SOEs. The entirety of these results suggests that managerial incentives are a net-negative for the innovative output of firms with high ownership concentration and SOEs, while having a neutral effect on firms with low ownership concentration and non-SOEs. Our findings are likely to be generalizable to other settings where controlling shareholder agency problems dominate principal-agent problems.

Keywords: G32, G38, O31

Suggested Citation:

Podolski, Edward and Jiang, Chunzi, Managerial Equity Incentive Schemes and Corporate Innovation Outcomes: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4374653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4374653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
265,489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies