Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Blockchain Technology as a Moderator On the Relationship Between Big Data and the Risk of Financial Disclosure (Analytical Study in the Egyptian and Iraqi Stock Exchange)

Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1(13 (121), 132–142. doi.10.15587/1729-4061.2023.274641

11 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2023

Khaled Abdel Sabour

Canadian International College (CIC) - Department of Business Technology

Abbas Al-Waeli

Mazaya University College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 28, 2023

Abstract

This paper aims to explain the impact of Blockchain Technology as a moderator in the relationship between Big Data and The Risk of Financial Disclosure to address the Risk of Financial Disclosure. Therefore, this technique was used to reduce the risks of disclosing financial and accounting data for various companies. The estimated population size of accounting information systems and information technology professionals is more than 300 in the Egyptian and Iraqi Stock Exchange. The results indicate that all the direct hypotheses that reflect the relation between Big Data characteristics and FDR are supported which is less than 0.05. There is no impact of Volume on Financial Disclosure Risk with a p-value=0.074. the indirect effect of Blockchain Technology on the relationship between (VEL, VER and VOL) and Financial Disclosure Risk was significant with a p-value of 0.048,0.024,0.001 respectively, which is less than 0.05 and does not support the relationship between VAR and Financial Disclosure Risk a p-value of 0.735. Then, we recommend state-of-the-art studies on the use of blockchain for big data applications in different vertical domains such as smart cities, Financial transactions, smart transportation, and smart bank accounts. For a better understanding, some representative blockchain-big data projects are also presented and analysed. Finally, challenges and future directions are discussed to further drive research in the countries of the Middle East. This paper presents the novel solutions associated with Big Data with Financial Disclosure Risks that can be addressed by Blockchain technology. As Well as present the motivations behind the use of blockchain for big data. We show that blockchain has great potential for facilitating big data analytics such as control of dirty data, enhanced security and transparency, enhanced quality of data, the management of data sharing and, Addressing risk financial disclosure

Keywords: Blockchain technology, big data, financial disclosure, Iraqi, Egyptian stock exchange

Suggested Citation:

Sabour, Khaled Abdel and Al-Waeli, Abbas, The Effect of Blockchain Technology as a Moderator On the Relationship Between Big Data and the Risk of Financial Disclosure (Analytical Study in the Egyptian and Iraqi Stock Exchange) (February 28, 2023). Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1(13 (121), 132–142. doi.10.15587/1729-4061.2023.274641, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4376845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
RANK
324,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies