Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Hidden Ties: ESG Performance and the Concealment of Major Customers

54 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2023 Last revised: 16 Sep 2025

Yixing (Ivee) Che

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies; University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Alan Guoming Huang

University of Waterloo

Yifei Kuang

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Changling Chen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 3, 2023

Abstract

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S-K requires supplier firms to disclose the identities of their major customers in the segment reports of 10-K filings. Against the backdrop of growing ESG scrutiny of supply chains and evidence on increasing concealment of customer identity, we examine whether and how firms’ ESG performance influences their decision to disclose the identities of major customers. We hypothesize that firms with weaker ESG performance are more likely to strategically conceal customer identities to avoid stakeholder backlash and the potential loss of key customers. Consistent with this prediction, we document a negative association between ESG performance and the concealment of major customer identities. This association is more pronounced for firms facing greater external monitoring by analysts, institutional investors, and end consumers. Finally, we show that concealment is associated with greater information asymmetry. Our findings highlight how poor ESG performance can undermine transparency in supply chain information in the markets.

Keywords: ESG performance, Segment reporting, Supply chain transparency, Customer disclosure, Customer concealment, Information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Che, Yixing (Ivee) and Huang, Alan G. and Kuang, Yifei and Chen, Changling,

Hidden Ties: ESG Performance and the Concealment of Major Customers

(April 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4376626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4376626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
550
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,151
RANK
115,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies