Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Look at Regulating Bankers’ Remuneration

Corporate Governance: An International Review 24, 322–333

35 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Anna (Ania) Zalewska

University of Leicester School of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

Research Questions/Issues: Executive remuneration as a tool of resolving agency problems or as a sign of them has been discussed in the literature for decades. The discussion, however, has been focused on non-financial firms. Bankers’ remuneration has been overlooked until recently. Due to specific features of the banking industry, and in particular, its potentially strong conflict between shareholders and stakeholders (type III agency conflict), it is not clear its shareholders who should be having dominant voice in fixing format and size of bankers’ remuneration. As risk-taking metrics are being set by regulators, and remuneration incentives may have strong risk-taking implications, the question arises whether remuneration of bankers should be set by boards like it is done in non-financial firms, whether it should be set by regulators. There are strong arguments in support of the latter solution, yet, the current regulatory developments do not provide a uniform support for leaving remuneration in hands of regulators.

Research Findings/Insights: The paper argues that due to numerous externalities it is necessary to regulate bankers’ remuneration. It also argues that this regulation should not focus on strengthening shareholders’ rights as the alignment of bankers’ incentives with those of shareholders’ leads to excessive risk-taking. It also argues that focus on executive remuneration is incorrect given that material risk takes are among lower rank bank employees. It discusses the necessity of remuneration regulation but also provides a critical assessment of the regulatory developments. .

Theoretical/Academic Implications: The presented analysis questions suitability of the common idea of assessing corporate governance in banks in the same way as it is done for non-financial institutions. It identifies important questions and avenues for future research. It calls for more theoretical and empirical work to understand the complexity and implications of adopting particular remuneration structures for companies that are highly levered, highly interconnected and ‘too big to fail’.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: The paper has important implication for the current and future policy makers and regulators. It highlights the current areas of regulatory focus to allow for cross-country comparison but also provides important discussion on weak points of the current regulation and future development trends.

Keywords: Executive remuneration, financial institutions, banks, regulation, systemic risk, stakeholders

JEL Classification: G20, G28, G38, G01, G39

Suggested Citation:

Zalewska, Anna, A New Look at Regulating Bankers’ Remuneration (July 1, 2015). Corporate Governance: An International Review 24, 322–333, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4376251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4376251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
397
RANK
848,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies