Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does board gender diversity affect bank performance? New evidence from Bangladesh

The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2023

15 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Jan 2024

Pappu Kumar Dey

The University of Newcastle

Mohammad Nakib

Jahangirnagar University - Department of Accounting and Information Systems, Students

Nilanjan Kumar Saha

Jahangirnagar University

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether female presence on board enhances the financial performance of commercial banks in Bangladesh. The sample includes listed banks from 2014 to 2019, constructing 167 firm-year observations. The results do not suggest any significant impact of female representation in the boardroom on the market value of banks. Besides, we find that, on average, more women on board do not associate with higher profitability. The study utilizes alternative measures of board gender diversity, grounding the tokenism perspective and critical mass effect. The alternative models do not demonstrate any significant impact of women directors on the bank’s financial performance suggesting the tokenism perspective of women’s presence. Moreover, our findings are inconsistent with the critical mass effect of women on boards. The results are robust to alternative proxies of the explanatory variable and alternative estimation techniques. This study complements the gender diversity literature in the developing country context. The findings of this study may assist the regulators and policymakers in issuing any policy or guideline on ensuring gender diversity in the boardroom.

Keywords: Banking sector, Bangladesh, board diversity, firm performance, gender diversity

JEL Classification: M14, G32 G34

Suggested Citation:

Dey, Pappu Kumar and Nakib, Mohammad and Saha, Nilanjan Kumar, Does board gender diversity affect bank performance? New evidence from Bangladesh (June 30, 2023). The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4377963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Amin , R Ur Rehman , R Ali , C G Ntim
Does gender diversity on the board reduce agency cost? Evidence from Pakistan
Gender in Management , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 164 - 181 Posted: 2022
T Almarayeh
Board gender diversity, board compensation and firm performance. Evidence from Jordan
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 673 - 694 Posted: 2023
M Athar , S Chughtai , A Rashid
Corporate governance and bank performance: evidence from banking sector of Pakistan
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2023
F Arnaboldi , B Casu , A Gallo , E Kalotychou , A Sarkisyan
Gender diversity and bank misconduct
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 71 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
355,741
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies