Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Activism in India: Analysis of Shareholders’ Exercise of Their Corporate Franchise in General Meetings

9 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2023

Heer Kamdar

O. P. Jindal Global University

Date Written: March 5, 2023

Abstract

The Indian corporate landscape is witnessing a sharp increase in the number of cases revolving around shareholder activism wherein activist investors are no longer content to merely being passive owners and are exercising their will by virtue of their voting rights in general meetings. This paper examines the legal and regulatory framework governing shareholder activism as well as the application of the same in light of recent notable instances such as Zee-Invesco debacle. While the activist shareholders are trying hard to make their voices heard, the paper analyzes whether the practices undertaken by them assume the character of prudence or policing. It highlights the problems prevalent in Indian boardrooms and advocates for the need to foster shareholder democracy.

Keywords: shareholder activism, voting rights, general meetings, corporate governance, shareholder democracy

Suggested Citation:

Kamdar, Heer, Shareholder Activism in India: Analysis of Shareholders’ Exercise of Their Corporate Franchise in General Meetings (March 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4378593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4378593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
597
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
RANK
103,847
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies