Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting: Is Convergence Possible?

Accounting in Europe 2023

36 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2023

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: February 28, 2023

Abstract

In this essay, we discuss the factors influencing the likelihood of convergence in corporate sustainability reporting. We identify several factors that negatively influence the probability of convergence in the short term. The first factor is the heterogeneity of concepts and definitions surrounding sustainability (e.g., ESG, CSR). This heterogeneity of definitions is pervasive at three levels: (1) across organizations claiming legitimacy in sustainability reporting standard-setting, (2) within standard-setting organizations over time, and (3) across firms reporting about their activities. A second factor is the large number of organizations claiming legitimacy in sustainability reporting. A third factor is related to a diversity of reporting requirements among three influential international standard setters (i.e., EFRAG, ISSB, SEC), leading to various corporate reporting choices. A fourth factor is the diversity in the objectives of standard-setting organizations. Overall, we believe that due to these sources of diversity, the probability of convergence in sustainability reporting appears limited, at least in the short term, although we identify progress in carbon emissions reporting.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, Standard Setters, ISSB, EFRAG

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Stolowy, Hervé and Paugam, Luc, Sustainability Reporting: Is Convergence Possible? (February 28, 2023). Accounting in Europe 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4380349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4380349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
718
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,848
RANK
81,898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies