Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Divide, Political Ties, and Contested Corporate Governance Reform in Taiwan

Journal of Management Studies, forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2023 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Chi-Nien Chung

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Xiaowei Rose Luo

INSEAD - Entrepreneurship and Family Enterprise

Weiting Zheng

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: March 7, 2023

Abstract

This study attempts to address the question under what conditions political ties buffer firms from, or bind firms to, political pressure. We draw attention to the institutional divide between the executive and legislative branches of a presidential democracy. Using the case of Taiwan, a “third wave” democracy with relatively strong state intervention, we argue that the two branches differ in their respective institutional roles, basis of legitimacy and resources in a context where the regime is seeking to fulfil its national agenda and please floating voters. We posit that corporate ties to these respective branches exert divergent influence on the adoption of government-initiated but highly contested corporate governance reforms. Ties to the executive branch push firms to reform because they depend on the government for resources, while ties to the legislative branch act as a buffer to reform as legislators court the support of firms in pursuit of electoral gains. Empirical analysis of reforms to enhance board independence from 2002 to 2005 supports our thesis. Our study contributes to research on corporate political strategy and corporate governance reform, revealing how the structural fragmentation of the state can give rise to conflicting roles of political ties to different branches.

Keywords: corporate political ties, institutional divide, corporate governance reform, presidential democracy

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Chi-Nien and Luo, Xiaowei Rose and Zheng, Weiting, Institutional Divide, Political Ties, and Contested Corporate Governance Reform in Taiwan (March 7, 2023). Journal of Management Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4381765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4381765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies