Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Repurchases and Investment Policies

53 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2023

Paul Brockman

Lehigh University - College of Business

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Jesus M. Salas

Lehigh University - Department of Finance and Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

Our study examines whether share repurchases lead to reductions in real investments. Repurchase opponents argue that managers forego value-enhancing investments to conduct opportunistic repurchases, while proponents argue that repurchases return excess cash to shareholders who then reinvest it more efficiently elsewhere. Our empirical approach compares the real investments in capital expenditures, research and development, and employment of repurchasing firms to matched sets of public and private non-repurchasing firms. We use both entropy-balanced and propensity score matching to hold constant the investment (i.e., growth) opportunity sets of repurchasing and non-repurchasing firms. Our empirical analyses yield no evidence that repurchases lead to reductions in real investments. Consistent with these results based on managerial decisions, we also show that financial analysts do not revise downward their capital expenditure forecasts following repurchases. Our findings are unaltered by various robustness checks, placebo tests, and issues related to omitted correlated variables.

Keywords: Repurchases, Investments, Capital Expenditures, R&D, Employment

JEL Classification: G31, G35, E22, E24

Suggested Citation:

Brockman, Paul and Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Salas, Jesus M., Share Repurchases and Investment Policies (December 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4382203 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4382203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
245,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies