Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Social Capital Mitigate Managerial Self-Dealing? Evidence from Insider Trading

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2023

Sung Gon Chung

Wayne State University

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Sang Hyun Park

Augusta University

Date Written: November 21, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether the social capital surrounding the firm’s corporate headquarters mitigates managerial self-dealing in the form of opportunistic insider trading. We find strong evidence that the level of social capital in the region surrounding the firm’s headquarters is negatively and significantly associated with insider trading profitability. We also find that the negative association between social capital and insider trading profitability is more pronounced when governance is weaker and corporate opacity is higher, instances where insiders have greater opportunities to trade on their private information. Further analyses on the potential mechanisms suggest that the negative association is stronger when the firm’s social networks are denser and when the civic norms in the region are stronger. Overall, our paper contributes to the growing social capital literature in accounting and finance by providing direct empirical evidence that social capital mitigates managerial self-serving behavior in the form of opportunistic insider trading.

Keywords: Social capital, insider trading, managerial opportunism

JEL Classification: A13, G14, M41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Sung Gon and Lee, Jimmy and Park, Sang Hyun, Does Social Capital Mitigate Managerial Self-Dealing? Evidence from Insider Trading (November 21, 2022). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4382532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4382532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
RANK
475,518
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies