Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect Of Firm Size and Corruption on Financial Challenges of Savings and Loans Companies: Evidence from Ghana
Social Sciences & Humanities Open

1 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2023 Publication Status: Published

Eric Amankwaah

Ghana Communication Technology University

nana baidoo

University of Ghana

Abstract

Savings and loan companies have attempted to satisfy the needs of their customers by raising assets and giving them credit. The study examines the financial challenges of savings and loan companies in Ghana from 2016 to 2021. The data came from the Savings and Loans Companies database and the Bank of Ghana (BoG) database. Using panel data analysis and the Whited-Wu Index, the results show that the firm shows a consistent higher level of financial constraints of -1.7 in 2016. From 2019 to 2021, the company will have easier access to funds compared to the period between 2017 and 2018. The study shows that cash holdings and private credit have a positive influence on the financial constraints of the companies. The study also found that firm size, collateral security, corruption index, and exchange rate significantly affect the financial challenges of companies negatively. It turned out that there was no connection between Ghana's economic growth and the company's financial challenges. The absence of sufficient financing significantly affects operations and profitability for the company. It is therefore recommended that there be business realignment at the savings and loan companies in Ghana. Company realignment is mostly done to get out of lines of business with poor margins and go into lines that are more naturally financially smart and boost performance.

Keywords: Firm Size, Corruption, financial Challenges, Savings and Loans Company, Private Credit, Collateral security, Cashholdings

Suggested Citation:

Amankwaah, Eric and baidoo, nana, Effect Of Firm Size and Corruption on Financial Challenges of Savings and Loans Companies: Evidence from Ghana. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4385084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4385084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
PlumX Metrics
Social Sciences & Humanities Open First Look
All Journals (1898)
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies