Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Crisis Regulator

58 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2023 Last revised: 13 May 2023

Sumit Agarwal

National University of Singapore

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Michael Shen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Sirui Wu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Date Written: January 12, 2023

Abstract

Our study leverages detailed résumé data of bank regulators to examine the impact of their early-career experiences with the S&L crisis during the 1980s and 1990s on banking supervision in their later careers. We find regulators with banking crisis experiences in their early careers are associated with more timely loan loss recognition of banks under their supervision. Such an effect is stronger for male regulators with crisis experiences and those aged between 35 and 45. In addition, these regulators are less susceptible to the revolving door problem and therefore more independent in the supervision process, which is evidenced by their higher likelihood to issue enforcement directive orders and enforce restatements. The independent supervision of these regulators translates into a more prudential credit decision and a lower bank risk during the build-up of the housing market bubble. Using the subsequent financial crisis of 2007–2009 as a laboratory, we find that banks supervised by regulators with crisis experiences are more resilient. Our findings suggest that these bank regulators cultivate a more cautious approach to banking supervision, enhancing the stability of the financial system.

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Sumit and Lin, Yupeng and Shen, Michael and Wu, Sirui, Banking Crisis Regulator (January 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4385103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4385103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
213,039
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies