Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Business Performance of Hotels in Western Australia: Analysis of Market Orientation as a Mediator

Kazemian, S., Djajadikerta, H.G., Trireksani, T., Mohd-Sanusi, Z. and Alam, M.M. (2022), 'Corporate governance and business performance of hotels in Western Australia: analysis of market orientation as a mediator', Business Process Management Journal, Vol. 28 No. 3, pp. 585-605. https://doi.org/10.1

30 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Soheil Kazemian

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Hadrian G. Djajadikerta

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Terri Trireksani

Murdoch University - School of Business

Zuraidah Mohd Sanusi

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Md. Mahmudul Alam

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Economics, Finance and Banking

Date Written: March 13, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines whether corporate governance enhances the financial and social business performance of three- to five-star hotels in Western Australia through the three dimensions of market orientation (i.e., customer orientation, competitor orientation, and inter-function coordination) as mediators.

Design/methodology/approach: Data were collected from managers of hotels in the WA capital city of Perth and its surrounding areas using a questionnaire. Partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) was used to analyse the data.

Findings: The overall result shows interesting findings of market orientation's mediating role. It is found that corporate governance may lead to better financial business performance through competitor orientation, but not through customer orientation and inter-function coordination. Complementary, corporate governance may lead to better social business performance through customer orientation and inter-function coordination, but not through competitor orientation.

Originality: This paper offers contributions to both literature and practice on what dimensions of market orientation are important to enhance the performance of hotels when corporate governance is applied.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Performance, Market orientation, Hotels, Western Australia, Australia

Suggested Citation:

Kazemian, Soheil and Djajadikerta, Hadrian G. and Trireksani, Terri and Mohd Sanusi, Zuraidah and Alam, Md. Mahmudul, Corporate Governance and Business Performance of Hotels in Western Australia: Analysis of Market Orientation as a Mediator (March 13, 2022). Kazemian, S., Djajadikerta, H.G., Trireksani, T., Mohd-Sanusi, Z. and Alam, M.M. (2022), 'Corporate governance and business performance of hotels in Western Australia: analysis of market orientation as a mediator', Business Process Management Journal, Vol. 28 No. 3, pp. 585-605. https://doi.org/10.1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4386529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4386529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
639
RANK
373,551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies