Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Data Analytics Use by Internal Auditors on the Reliability and Timeliness of Financial Reporting

Posted: 16 Mar 2023 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Romina Rakipi

West Virginia University

Giuseppe D'Onza

University of Pisa

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine the extent to which data analytics use by internal auditors is associated with improved financial reporting reliability and timeliness. We document a reduction in the likelihood and number of material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, a reduction in the likelihood of restatements, and more timely earning announcements at firms with an extensive use of data analytics in internal audit. Additionally, we investigate and find a positive association between the use of different data analytics techniques and financial reporting reliability and timeliness. These findings are robust to controlling for a number of firm’s and other attributes, as well as when using entropy balanced samples and other subsample analyses. Our findings inform research and practitioners by providing initial empirical evidence of the benefits of data analytics use by internal auditors for financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Data analytics, financial reporting reliability, financial reporting timeliness, internal audit, audit committee

Suggested Citation:

Rakipi, Romina and D'Onza, Giuseppe, The Impact of Data Analytics Use by Internal Auditors on the Reliability and Timeliness of Financial Reporting (January 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4386499
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies