Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEOs' Structural Power, Prestige Power, and Target Ratcheting

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4386726

55 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2023 Last revised: 16 May 2023

Aishwarrya Deore

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Matthias D. Mahlendorf

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Fan Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how different types of CEO power affect the incorporation of past performance into CEOs' future targets. We theorize that CEOs can use their structural and prestige power to downward bias the target updating process to receive easier targets. However, CEOs with high prestige power may be more willing to accept target increases due to the signaling value of ambitious targets. Results from data on earnings per share (EPS) targets support our hypotheses. We find that asymmetric upward ratcheting, as reported in prior studies, is mostly driven by low-power CEOs. In contrast, CEOs with structural power receive weaker upward and stronger downward target adjustments. CEOs with prestige power receive favorable upward and downward target adjustments relative to CEOs with low power but not relative to CEOs with structural power. Interestingly, the two types of power do not have additive effects on target adjustments. Moreover, we use three natural experiments that enhance the signaling motive of CEOs and find that after these events, CEOs with prestige power agree to more challenging upward revisions compared to low-power CEOs. Our results contribute to accounting literature by distinguishing between different types of CEO power and by examining how organizational and social factors affect target-setting dynamics.

Keywords: prestige, managerial power, target ratcheting, dynamic target setting, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, M5, M12

Suggested Citation:

Deore, Aishwarrya and Mahlendorf, Matthias D. and Wu, Fan, CEOs' Structural Power, Prestige Power, and Target Ratcheting (March 13, 2023). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4386726, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4386726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4386726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
264,473
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies