Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Managerial Ability Toward Corporate Social Responsibility on Enterprise Default Risk

Finance Research Letters,fForthcoming

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Huihui Chen

Independent

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Ming Zhang

Independent

Qidi Zhang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

In this study, we explore the effect of managerial ability toward corporate social responsibility (CSR) on enterprise default risk. We observe a negative correlation between CSR and enterprise default risk. Furthermore, we introduce managerial ability and analyze its effects on the default risk of enterprises with regard to implementing the CSR strategy. Studies have revealed that CEOs with higher managerial abilities can effectively capture the advantages of CSR. Our findings are robust to alternative variable measurements. In conclusion, the higher managerial ability is key proof of the effectiveness of CSR, which reduces default risk, especially during economic uncertainty. Our evidence on the effects of managerial ability toward CSR on enterprise risk default has important implications for practitioners and regulators.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huihui and Ho, Kung-Cheng and Zhang, Ming and Zhang, Qidi, Effect of Managerial Ability Toward Corporate Social Responsibility on Enterprise Default Risk (March 13, 2023). Finance Research Letters,fForthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4386890
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies