Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Ratings and Capital Structure

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 31, No. 17-32, 2015

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Lee-Hsien Pan

Keuka College

Chien‐Ting Lin

Deakin University - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Shih-Cheng Lee

Yuan Ze University

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of information asymmetry on a firm's capital structure decisions with a unique information rating scheme that draws from 114 measures over five dimensions of information disclosures on each firm from 2006 to 2012. We found that a firm with high (low) information rating is related to low (high) debt financing and leverage. In particular, a firm that moves from the lowest to the highest information rating experiences a 7.8% reduction in firm leverage on average. This relationship is robust o firm characteristics, incentive conflicts, and the agreement theory of Dittmar and Thakor (2007). Our results suggest that information asymmetry is influential on a firm's pecking order behavior independent of these effects.

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Lee-Hsien and Lin, Chien‐Ting and Lee, Shih-Cheng and Ho, Kung-Cheng, Information Ratings and Capital Structure (March 13, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 31, No. 17-32, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387318
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies