Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Audit Quality Higher when Audit Committees Report Strong Oversight?

12 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2023 Last revised: 10 May 2023

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: May 2023

Abstract

This article provides a summary of recent research by Bratten, Causholli, and Sulcaj (2022) who examine whether issuers with audit committees who report strong oversight over the audit function have higher audit quality. Using a novel dataset from Audit Analytics that summarizes reported audit committee activities, Bratten et al. (2022) create a composite measure that captures the strength of the audit committee’s oversight of the audit process. The study uses several measures to capture audit quality, including audit fees, discretionary accruals, and propensity to meet or just beat earnings benchmarks. The authors show that when issuers’ audit committees report activities consistent with being more active in overseeing the external auditor, issuers, on average, have better audit quality.

Keywords: audit committee, auditor oversight, audit quality, audit committee disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Causholli, Monika and Sulcaj, Valbona, Is Audit Quality Higher when Audit Committees Report Strong Oversight? (May 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4387707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
439,204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies