Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China's Historical Imperial Examination System and Corporate Social Responsibility

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 72, No. 101734, 2022

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Xiaoran Kong

Independent

Xueying Zhang

ShanDong University of Finance and Economics

Cheng Yan

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Using the sample of China’s A-share listed companies from 2010 to 2019 and the index of jinshi density to measure the historical imperial examination system, we empirically test the influence of the imperial examination system on corporate social responsibility. We find that the imperial examination system can encourage firms to improve their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) level. The results are robust to using the instrumental variable method, propensity score matching method, Heckman two-step regression, and a series of other tests. The mechanism analysis shows that regional education level and corporate social capital play a mediating role in the promotion of corporate social responsibility by the imperial examination system. Further analysis shows that the characteristics of the board of directors, external supervision pressure, and the shareholding ratio of institutional investors are important factors affecting the positive correlation. We further explore the role of the informal institution in corporate governance.

Suggested Citation:

Kong, Xiaoran and Zhang, Xueying and Yan, Cheng and Ho, Kung-Cheng, China's Historical Imperial Examination System and Corporate Social Responsibility ( 2022). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Vol. 72, No. 101734, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387170
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies