Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Stock Price Crash Risk on Accounting Conservatism

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Yan Gu

Fudan University - Fanhai International School of Finance (FISF)

Qianglong Zhou

Independent

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

Although the causes of stock price crashes have been investigated, the examination of their economic consequences has been neglected. In this study, the impacts of stock price crashes on internal governance mechanisms are examined with regard to accounting conservatism in a sample of listed Chinese firms. After the stock price of a firm crashes, its accounting conservatism increases substantially. This result holds regardless of the methods used to assess key variables and even after the endogenous problems are controlled for. Furthermore, this effect is only significant when the external governance is strengthened—as indicated by higher analyst coverage, higher media coverage, and increases in the shareholding ratio of institutional investors. The conservative accounting policies include higher accrued liabilities and higher bad debt provisions for accounts receivable. Our findings indicate the firms’ internal governance problems, present before the stock price crashes, are mitigated after the crashes. Nevertheless, this process requires the implementation of external governance mechanisms.

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yan and Zhou, Qianglong and Ho, Kung-Cheng, The Effects of Stock Price Crash Risk on Accounting Conservatism (March 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387323
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies