Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Managerial Ability on Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Value in the Energy Industry

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 28 (2), 581-594, 2023

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Yujing Gong

Wenlan School of Business, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Cheng Yan

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the role of managerial ability in the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and firm performance in the energy industry, where sustainability issues are of special interest. We first identify a positive association between CSR and firm value, which, however, disappears when considering managerial ability. Only the MA-associated components of CSR increases energy firms' value. Finally, managers with superior ability can still efficiently implement CSR activities to foster firm value during the financial crisis. Taken together, these results suggest that higher managerial ability is a crucial certification of the benefit of CSR investment, which in turn improves firm value, particularly during unstable periods.

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Yujing and Ho, Kung-Cheng and Yan, Cheng, The Effect of Managerial Ability on Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Value in the Energy Industry (March 13, 2023). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 28 (2), 581-594, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387298
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies