Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Presence of Executives with a Legal Background Affect Stock Price Crash?

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Can Huang

Chongqing University of Technology (CQUT)

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: Executives with a legal background have superior knowledge of the law compared with executives who do not have such a background. This study investigates how executives who are well informed of the law can reduce stock price crash risk and how this is significant from a corporate governance perspective.

Research Findings/Insights: We collected and evaluated 23,031 firm-year observations from 2008 to 2018, which resulted in the following findings: (1) Executives with a legal background can effectively reduce stock price crash risk. (2) When the company's external or internal supervision is weak, the effect of executives with a legal background in reducing stock price crash risk is particularly prominent. (3) The executives' ability to reduce stock price crash risk is particularly conspicuous when the company's intention to hide bad news is low or when there is a high risk of the bad news being leaked.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Stock price crash risk is a critical problem to address in the Chinese capital market. The prevailing explanation for crash risk emphasizes executives' concealment of bad news as a primary factor. Since the suppression of bad news by company executives is the main reason for stock price crash risk, observing the influence of executives on this risk is a viable direct approach. Executives with a legal background, in particular, have a critical influence on companies. They possess a superior understanding of the law compared with those who do not have such a background and are more willing to respect and abide by the law. As a result, they have a lower tolerance for inappropriate acts by the executive team, namely, concealing bad news, which reduces the risk of stock price crash.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: In China, the world's largest transitional economy, investor protection and information environments are still developing. Countries with less developed regulations can adopt substitutive mechanisms, such as making the employment of executives with a legal background mandatory, to facilitate the healthy development of their capitalist markets. Given the capacity of these executives to reduce stock price crash risk, thereby supporting continuous and stable development of the capital market, regulatory authorities should encourage listed companies to hire executives with a legal background. Furthermore, they should also start in-depth promotion of and education on the rule of law among employees to improve their legal competence.

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kung-Cheng and Huang, Can, Does the Presence of Executives with a Legal Background Affect Stock Price Crash? (March 13, 2023). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387124
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies