Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure, Product Market Competition and Payout Policy

Posted: 17 Mar 2023

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Lee-Hsien Pan

Keuka College

Shih-Cheng Lee

Yuan Ze University

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: La Porta et al. (2000) examine the impact of corporate governance on dividend policies by testing two hypotheses, the outcome hypothesis and the substitution hypothesis. The former argues that firms with better governance may pay higher dividends to mitigate agency problems, while the latter states that firms with poor governance may pay higher payouts to establish the good reputation. Given that information disclosure and product market competition are two governance mechanisms, one internal and the other external, the follow-up questions to consider are how different governance mechanisms affect corporate payout policy? How does information disclosure interact with product market competition in affecting the corporate payout policy? Does the former complement or substitutes the latter in reducing the conflicts of interests between managers and shareholders, thereby affecting dividend payout?

Research Findings/Insights: We examine the effects of information disclosure and product market competition on payout policy. Using a unique and comprehensive information rating scheme based on 114 measures over five dimensions of information disclosure at each publicly listed firm in Taiwan from 2005 to 2014, we find that information disclosure and product market competition alone affect a firm’s payout decisions. When examining both effects together, we find that information disclosure and product market competition complement each other in affecting corporate dividend policy.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Our questions are motivated by the existing empirical papers that suggest agency problems may not be adequately mitigated alone by the governance mechanisms such as accounting information, product market competition, and increased disclosure levels mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (Shleifer and Vishny, 1997; Sloan, 2001; Solomon and Lublin, 2004). By considering the joint effect of information disclosure and product market competition on a payout policy, our study sheds light on the debate over whether monitoring complements information disclosure (Bens, 2002) or disclosure of voluntary information inhibits a firm’s competitive position (Healy and Palepu, 1993; Elliott and Jacobson 1994).

Practitioner/Policy Implications: First, we find that firms with higher information disclosure tend to increase payout amount. Second, we find that firms operating in the competitive market are more likely to have higher corporate payouts, which supports the outcome hypothesis. More importantly, combining the effects of information disclosure and product market competition reveals that these two governance mechanisms complement each other in reducing agency problems, thereby increasing the level of dividend payouts. Our results suggest that the governance mechanism of information disclosure can be more effective for firms in competitive industries.

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kung-Cheng and Pan, Lee-Hsien and Lee, Shih-Cheng, Information Disclosure, Product Market Competition and Payout Policy (March 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387338
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
392
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies