Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Ratings Disclosure and Stock Price Crash Risk

Posted: 17 Mar 2023

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Xixi Shen

Independent

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

This research examine the effects of information disclosure ratings on firm-specific stock price crash risk. We present evidence that there is a statistically significant negative relationship between stock price crash risk and information disclosure ratings. Our evidence further shows that the effect of risk reduction is transmitted through the market reactions (i.e., investor attention and liquidity) as intermediary channels, and investor attention is the main reaction. Specifically, firms with higher information disclosure ratings attract more investor attention and have greater stock liquidity, leading to lower stock price crash risk. Our findings are shown to be robust after controlling for certain variables and addressing endogeneity. In general, companies with high information disclosure ratings have shown more company information. Our evidence suggests that such companies face a lower risk of a stock price crash, and their investors are also exposed to lower sharp firm-specific downside risk. These results indicate that enterprises with good information disclosure have improved internal corporate transparency in the face of stock price crashes, helping correct investors’ decision-making problems and external investors’ attention and liquidity provide external supervision and thus better investor protection.

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kung-Cheng and Shen, Xixi, Information Ratings Disclosure and Stock Price Crash Risk (March 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387325
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies