Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Environmental Concern, CEO Turnover, and Green Investment: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in China

Energy Economics, No. 105379, 2023

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Yan Gu

Fudan University - Fanhai International School of Finance (FISF)

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Cheng Yan

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the impact of public environmental concern (PEC) on corporate green investments from the perspective of CEO turnover using the extreme event of PM 2.5 surge at the end of 2011 in China as a quasinatural experiment. Compared with non-heavily polluting companies, the probability of CEO turnover in heavily polluting ones has significantly increased amid the surge of PEC. Heavily polluting companies ease the pressure by increasing green investment. In addition to the hard regulative measures such as environmental regulations, the PEC as a form of soft regulation also makes corporate management more focused on environmental responsibility.

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yan and Ho, Kung-Cheng and Yan, Cheng, Public Environmental Concern, CEO Turnover, and Green Investment: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment in China (March 13, 2023). Energy Economics, No. 105379, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387279
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies