Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Racial Diversity Exposure and Firm Responses Following the Murder of George Floyd

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Karthik Balakrishnan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Rafael Copat

University of Texas at Dallas

Daniela De la Parra

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

K. Ramesh

Rice University

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

George Floyd’s murder caused many firms to reveal how exposed they are to racial diversity issues. We examine investor and firm behaviors after this socially significant event to provide evidence on the valuation effects of the exposure and ensuing corporate responses. We develop a text-based measure of a firm’s exposure to racial diversity issues from conference call transcripts and find that, after the murder of George Floyd, firms with diversity exposure experience a stock price decrease of approximately 0.7% around the date of the conference call. We provide evidence that this effect is attributable to race-related exposure and not gender-related exposure. Initiatives taken by firms mitigate the negative market reaction. We document that firms with racial diversity exposure respond by appointing Black directors. The stock market views appointments of Black directors more favorably after George Floyd’s murder, except when they are perceived as symbolic. We also find that firms with greater exposure to racial diversity are more likely to establish DEI departments, appoint DEI leaders, specify diversity goals, increase supply chain diversity, and donate to racial justice causes. Our paper provides evidence that exposure to racial diversity issues adversely affects firm value, and companies address the exposure by taking actions.

Keywords: racial diversity, textual analysis, valuation effects, board of directors, corporate actions

JEL Classification: G14, G34, J15, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Karthik and Copat, Rafael and De la Parra, Daniela and Ramesh, K., Racial Diversity Exposure and Firm Responses Following the Murder of George Floyd (March 13, 2023). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4387740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,824
RANK
133,220
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies