Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Near Is More: Learning Efficiency of R&D Innovation among Interlocking Firms

Financial Innovation, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Yu-En Lin

Jilin University (JLU)

Yu-Qing Jiang

Jilin University (JLU) - Department of Radiology

Hsiang-Hsuan Chih

National Dong Hwa University

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 13, 2023

Abstract

Research question/issue: This study examines whether geographic proximity produces a proximity preference as interlocking frms observe each other and learn innovative behaviors through information transmission among interlocking directors.

Research fndings/insights: We study the performance of A-share-listed companies in China from 2007 to 2017 on the basis of resource dependence theory, agglomera tion efect theory, and Porter’s competitive theory. When target frms learn about research and development–related innovation behaviors from interlocking frms closer to them, they experience more efcient learning efects and have improved convergent traits. Moreover, this proximity advantage increases the willingness of the target frm to communicate with and learn from interlocking frms closer to them. Highly developed areas and research and development–intensive industries positively afect he learning efciency of interlocking frms.

Theoretical/academic implications: Our conclusion is consistent with resource dependence theory; target frms in highly developed areas are more willing to imitate and study nearby interlocking frms to maintain their peer relations, innovation potential, and competitiveness. Our conclusion is also consistent with competition theory, which states that the exchange of information between target frms in highly research and development–intensive industries and distant interlocking frms increases innovation differentiation, innovation potential, and competitiveness, even when such exchange has a high cost.

Practitioner/policy implications: The results support resource dependence theory and peers’ efects. The information obtained by interlocking directorates through external social relations guides frm decision-making, and closer distances reveal more obvious efects.

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yu-En and Jiang, Yu-Qing and Chih, Hsiang-Hsuan and Ho, Kung-Cheng, Near Is More: Learning Efficiency of R&D Innovation among Interlocking Firms (March 13, 2023). Financial Innovation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387191
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
220
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies