Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exits, Performance, and Late Stage Private Equity: The Case of UK Management Buy-outs

European Financial Management

46 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Ranko Jelic

University of Sussex Business School

Mike Wright

University of Nottingham

Date Written: October 19, 2010

Abstract

Using a hand-collected dataset of 1,225 buy-outs, we examine post buy-out and post exit long term abnormal operating performance of UK management buy-outs, during the period 1980-2009. Our univariate and panel data analysis of post buy-out performance conclusively show positive changes in output. We also find strong evidence for improvements in employment and output and a lack of significant changes in efficiency and profitability following IPO exits. IPOs from the main London Stock Exchange (LSE) market outperform their counterparts from the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) only in terms of changes in output. For SMBOs, performance declines during the first buy-out but in the second buy-out performance stabilizes until year three, after which profitability and efficiency fall while employment increases. Although PE backed buy-outs do not exhibit either post buy-out or post exit underperformance, they fail to over-perform their non-PE backed counterparts. In the subsample of buy-outs exiting via IPOs on the AIM, PE firms do not outperform non-PE buy-outs. Our findings highlight the importance of tracing the overall performance of buy-outs over a longer period and controlling for sample selection bias related to the provision of PE backing.

Keywords: MBO, Operating Performance, Private Equity, IPO, SMBOs

JEL Classification: G24, G32, G34 d]

Suggested Citation:

Jelic, Ranko and Wright, Mike, Exits, Performance, and Late Stage Private Equity: The Case of UK Management Buy-outs (October 19, 2010). European Financial Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
739
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies