Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Horizon and Corporate Labor Policies: Evidence from Fixed-Term Boards

Centro Studi Luca d'Agliano Development Studies Working Paper No. 485, 2023

60 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Sabrina Lucia Di Addario

Bank of Italy

Vincenzo Pezone

Goethe University Frankfurt

Raffaele Saggio

University of British Columbia (UBC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relationship between managerial incentives and firms’ human resource policies by combining Italian social security records with newly collected data on board terms. We exploit the fact that boards of listed companies are appointed every three years as a source of variation in directors’ and top executives’ horizons. Our evidence shows that average wages cyclically decline in the last year of the board term, as managers approach the end of their tenure, consistent with executives trying to cut labor expenses and, hence, maximize profitability when they are up for reappointment. By leveraging individual administrative data, we also show that involuntary separations that occur close to the end of a board term lead to significantly worse outcomes for workers compared to involuntary separations that occur at the beginning of a board term; this result is driven by outsourcing events. These effects are not present in firms where managers are more likely to be entrenched, such as family-managed firms.

Suggested Citation:

Di Addario, Sabrina Lucia and Pezone, Vincenzo and Saggio, Raffaele, Managerial Horizon and Corporate Labor Policies: Evidence from Fixed-Term Boards (March 14, 2023). Centro Studi Luca d'Agliano Development Studies Working Paper No. 485, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388061 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies