Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Use of IFRS Have Any Role in Analysts' Forecasts? a Comparative Case between EU Countries and EU Associate Countries.

16 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Gazmend Nure

Genossenschaftsverband Verband der Region

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of IFRS reporting flexibility on the presentation of income statements after the adoption of IFRS and whether this affects analysts' forecasts. We find that 44.7 percent (42.02 percent) of first-time IFRS adopters exhibit an average marginal increase (decrease) of 2,584 (-1,253) items in the number of unique items reported. We capture the consequences of reporting flexibility by IFRS by analyzing changes in the number of unique line items reported based on "as reported" income statements. These changes lead to a decrease in the absolute forecast errors of analysts for both rising and falling firms.

Keywords: IFRS, financial statements, analysts' forecasts, firm.importance value, quality reporting

JEL Classification: E02; E60; F02; F35; G28

Suggested Citation:

Nure, Gazmend, Does the Use of IFRS Have Any Role in Analysts' Forecasts? a Comparative Case between EU Countries and EU Associate Countries. (March 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388367 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies