Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Syndicated Lending Relationships, Information Asymmetry and Market Making in the Secondary Loan Market

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6934-23

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research

55 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Matthew Phillips

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: August 14, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates why commercial lenders make markets for the loans that they sell on the secondary market. Using loan-level data, I find that origination lenders with extensive borrower relationships and more reputational capital at stake are more likely to serve as market makers. Greater participation of origination lenders as market makers is associated with lower trading costs for their borrowers' loans. This association remains even in conditions where origination lenders could exploit their information advantage for market making profits. Lenders benefit from being market makers by maintaining strong subsequent lending relationships with their borrowers. Collectively, this evidence is consistent with origination lenders' participation in the secondary market being motivated by reducing trading frictions rather than market making profits.

Keywords: Syndicated Lending Relationships, Information Asymmetry syndicated lending, lending relationships, secondary loan market, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, Matthew, Syndicated Lending Relationships, Information Asymmetry and Market Making in the Secondary Loan Market (August 14, 2024). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6934-23, Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
L Allen , A A Gottesman , L Peng
The impact of joint participation on liquidity in equity and syndicated bank loan markets
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 50 - 78 Posted: 2012
H Amiraslani , J Donovan , M A Phillips , R Wittenberg-Moerman
Contracting in the dark: The rise of public-side lenders in the syndicated loan market
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 Posted: 2023
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
A Beatty , S Liao , H H Zhang
The effect of banks' financial reporting on syndicated-loan structures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 496 - 520 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
RANK
164,752
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies