Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Stakeholder Initiatives and Legitimacy: A Deliberative Systems Perspective

Business Ethics Quarterly, Vol. 34, 2024, Forthcoming,

56 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Kristin Apffelstaedt

University of Hamburg

Stephanie Schrage

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Dirk Ulrich Gilbert

University of Hamburg

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

The legitimacy of MSIs as institutions for social and environmental governance in the global economy has received much scholarly attention over the past years. To date, however, research has yet to focus on assessing the legitimacy of MSIs in their interactions with other actors within larger systems of deliberation. Drawing on the deliberative systems perspective developed within deliberative democracy theory, we theorize a normative framework to evaluate the roles of MSIs within the broader systems of governance they co-construct through their interactions with other initiatives, governments, NGOs, and other external actors. As we demonstrate in our evaluation of the illustrative case of the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety as an MSI in the context of the Bangladeshi garment industry, this framework can help researchers to assess whether an MSI ultimately serves to enhance or undermine the deliberative legitimacy of the overall system of which it forms a part.

Keywords: Multi-stakeholder initiatives (MSIs), legitimacy, deliberative democracy, deliberative systems, Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Apffelstaedt, Kristin and Schrage, Stephanie and Gilbert, Dirk Ulrich, Multi-Stakeholder Initiatives and Legitimacy: A Deliberative Systems Perspective (March 14, 2023). Business Ethics Quarterly, Vol. 34, 2024, Forthcoming, , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
893
RANK
422,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies