Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Context Matter for Information Transfer?

45 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Stephen A. Karolyi

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Phong Truong

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: March 15, 2023

Abstract

We exploit the SEC's staggered introduction of the EDGAR platform, which reduced the cost of acquiring historical financial reports, to study whether context affects news diffusion across stocks. We find that information transfer from a peer stock's earnings announcement increases by 70-100% after that peer adopts EDGAR, suggesting that the supply of context promotes cross-learning by investors. We find no evidence that this effect reverses, consistent with an improvement in information processing.

Keywords: context, information processing, EDGAR, market efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Karolyi, Stephen A. and Ruchti, Thomas and Truong, Phong, Does Context Matter for Information Transfer? (March 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4389090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4389090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,607
RANK
239,255
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies