Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor's Contribution Towards Effective Management of Business Organization

42 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2023

Muhammad Abdullah Shoaib

Bahria University Islamabad, Bahria Business School

Moiz Waheed

Bahria University Islamabad, Bahria Business School

Neha Ghazal

Bahria University Islamabad, Bahria Business School

Urooj Azhar

Bahria University Islamabad - Department of Management Sciences

Date Written: February 10, 2023

Abstract

This study is exploring the role of auditing in the effective management of business organization. OGDCL has 18 oil and gas processing facilities and 50 operational oil and gas fields spread out geographically across the nation. Dehydration, Gas sweetening, Refining, and Compression facilities are a few of these. Literature review proves audit has played tremendous role in increasing efficiency of businesses. PETSAL and SWOT analysis was performed to analyze the OGDCL in all expects. PESTEL study provides in depth knowledge about operational challenges there. The governing body will be able to understand the task, the nature of business and key SOPs they must abide by during their tasks if a good PESTEL study is carried out for this industry concerning any country or region. SWOT analysis identifies the business strategic strengths and weaknesses of an organization. Finding out how well the current strengths and weaknesses are relevant to and able to handle fluctuations in the company atmosphere in the form of opportunities and threats is the aim. The goal-achieving ability of a corporation depends on the management and internal audit departments operating efficiently. Audit charter was carved out for OGDCL upon comparing charters of Woodside Energy and Aramco, then upon review and discussion with OGDCL final charter is suggested and presented to OGDCL. The audit charter will make it probable to specify the internal audit activity's scope precisely to suit the organization's demands. The document should be reviewed and then implemented as per the resources available to the organization.

Keywords: SWOT, PASTEL, OGDCL, Audit charter, Internal Audit Department

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Abdullah Shoaib, Muhammad and Waheed, Moiz and Ghazal, Neha and Azhar, Urooj, Auditor's Contribution Towards Effective Management of Business Organization (February 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4389840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4389840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
664
RANK
368,155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies