Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Sustainability Reporting Landscape and Research Opportunities in Accounting

32 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2023

Abstract

I first distinguish the terms economic growth, economic development, and sustainable development. I then discuss the term ESG and why this term is used with respect to the corporation. I follow with a discussion of the shareholder primacy perspective and how this perspective plays a defining role in corporate law, corporate governance, and asset management. I argue that the shareholder primacy perspective is not appropriate for sustainability reporting because when a firm pollutes the environment, reduces biodiversity, or has inequitable social policies, it does not bear the full cost of its action; society and the planet does. Therefore, providing sustainability disclosures that are relevant to investors misses the point that sustainability disclosures are motivated by the desire of other stakeholders to learn about externalities. I discuss the different standard setters in the sustainability space and how accounting and measurement play key roles. I close with a discussion of research opportunities.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting, stakeholders, shareholders, ESG, earnings, financial materiality, double materiality, standard setters, externalities

JEL Classification: K22, L21, M41, M48, Q56, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Dechow, Patricia, Understanding the Sustainability Reporting Landscape and Research Opportunities in Accounting (June 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4390117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4390117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
F H Alexander
Benefit Corporation, Law and Governance; Pursuing Profit with Purpose Posted: 2017
B Baik , O Even-Tov , R Han , D Park
The Real Effects of Conflict Minerals Disclosures Posted: 2021
F Berg , J F Kolbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022-11
S Burzillo , M Shaffer , R G Sloan
Who Uses Corporate Sustainability Reports? Available at SSRN 3976550 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,566
RANK
16,872
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies