Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Policy Uncertainty: Politically Experienced Directors and Corporate Investment

86 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2023

Demian Berchtold

University of Bern; Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne

Blake Bowler

Mercer University

Paul Brockman

Lehigh University - College of Business

Zhe Li

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs

Jiri Tresl

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2, 2023

Abstract

Previous studies show that economic policy uncertainty has been rising steadily since the 1960s (Baker et al. 2014), and that this secular increase has led to harmful economic outcomes such as reduced investment rates (Gulen and Ion 2016). Other studies find that politically connected directors play a unique role in corporate decision making and firm valuation (Goldman, Rocholl, and So 2009). We combine these two lines of research to examine the ability of politically experienced directors (PEDs) to mitigate the harmful investment effects of policy uncertainty. Our results show that the presence of at least one PED on a company board reduces the sensitivity of investment decisions to policy uncertainty by 49% relative to firms without PEDs. These results are stronger when the PED serves on a presidential (as opposed to legislative) committee, and among firms most vulnerable to investment irreversibility. We explore omitted variables bias and instrumental variable estimation in robustness testing to alleviate endogeneity concerns. Overall, our findings align with the theoretical framework of Pastor and Veronesi (2013) and real options theory, and confirm that PEDs can significantly reduce the harmful effects of policy uncertainty.

Keywords: Policy uncertainty; Directors; Political experience; Investment

JEL Classification: G31, G34, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Berchtold, Demian Simon and Bowler, Blake and Brockman, Paul and Li, Zhe and Tresl, Jiri, Navigating Policy Uncertainty: Politically Experienced Directors and Corporate Investment (September 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4391847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4391847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
F Akbas , F Meschke , Wintoki , Mb
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
472,791
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies