Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure, Foreign Ownership, and the Role of the Information and Governance Environments

51 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2025

Huseyin Temiz

University of Liverpool; Samsun University

Periklis Boumparis

Newcastle University Business School

Chris Florackis

University of Liverpool (UK)

Date Written: March 18, 2023

Abstract

Analyzing a large sample of firms from 42 countries, this study examines the impact of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure on the level of firms’ foreign ownership, as well as how this relationship varies across national information and governance environments. We find that ESG disclosure helps firms attract foreign institutional equity capital. We also document that the positive effect of ESG disclosure on the level of foreign ownership is more pronounced in countries with weaker information and governance environments. Further analysis shows that this effect is primarily driven by the environmental and social dimensions of ESG, indicating their greater importance to foreign investors. The findings are robust across various sensitivity tests, including methods addressing potential endogeneity, an analysis incorporating a measure of ESG disclosure quality that accounts for decoupling–the gap between a firm’s stated ESG commitments and its actual practices–and restricting the sample solely to investors from countries with strong environmental performance. Drawing on a multi-theoretical framework encompassing institutional, signaling, agency, and legitimacy perspectives, our study contributes to the understanding of the relationship between corporate ESG disclosure and foreign ownership by highlighting the role of information and governance environments. Given the central role of cross-border investment for many economies, this study offers important insights for regulators engaged in developing ESG disclosure requirements, as well as for firms seeking to attract foreign investors and expand their access to international equity capital.

Keywords: ESG disclosure, foreign ownership, institutional investors, information asymmetry, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Temiz, Huseyin and Boumparis, Periklis and Florackis, Chris, ESG Disclosure, Foreign Ownership, and the Role of the Information and Governance Environments (March 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4392694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4392694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
N Abdioglu , V Bamiatzi , S T Cavusgil , A Khurshed , K Stathopoulos
Information asymmetry, disclosure and foreign institutional investment: An empirical investigation of the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 902 - 915 Posted: 2015
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
K D Allee , R Cating , C Rawson
No news is bad news: local news intensity and firms' information environments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2025
Y Altunbas , L Gambacorta , A Reghezza , G Velliscig
Does gender diversity in the workplace mitigate climate change?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 77 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,526
RANK
317,057
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies