Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Disclosure in Going Private Deals

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4392782

54 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2023

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Disclosure in going private transactions has become a topic of increasing interest for regulators and policymakers. Going private transactions are subject to special SEC rules that mandate management to provide detailed disclosure to all shareholders before a general vote. We examine the role of disclosure in addressing the frictions between sellers and buyers. We find that disclosure volume is positively associated with the likelihood of closing a deal. However, disclosure volume is also positively related to the intensity of shareholders’ negotiations, increasing the likelihood of upward price revisions, and shareholder litigation. Our findings speak to the extent to which the SEC rules fulfill the regulator’s intent when mandating going-private disclosures. Our findings suggest that disclosure has real effects related to the success of going private transactions, and shed light on the trade-offs that buyers face when determining the extent of disclosure in SEC filings.

Keywords: going private transactions, real effects, disclosure, litigation, SEC filings, acquisitions

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Vulcheva, Maria, The Real Effects of Disclosure in Going Private Deals (March 1, 2023). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4392782, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4392782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4392782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
860
RANK
317,057
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies