Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where the Wild Things Are? The Governance of Private Companies

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-15

52 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2023 Last revised: 5 Apr 2023

Gideon Parchomovsky

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law; University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School

Asaf Eckstein

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: March 19, 2023

Abstract

Private companies far outnumber public ones but receive scant scholarly, public, or regulatory attention and little is known about their governance. In this Article, we begin to fill the void by shedding light on the governance of the largest 200 private companies in the world – some of which are as large as the top public companies. We embarked upon our study with two principal hypotheses. The first is that there exists a governance gap between private and public companies. According to this hypothesis, the governance structures in public companies are much closer to the ideal than the governance regimes found in private companies. The second hypothesis is that there exists a governance gap between the largest and the smallest private companies—specifically, that the governance structures in largest private companies are better than those found in the smallest. We expected to see governance gaps because private companies are not subject to the same regulation as public ones, are free of the rules imposed by exchanges and the guidelines of institutional investors, and are also largely immune from public and media pressures.

To test our two hypotheses, we hand-collected data about the following parameters that have attracted much attention in the corporate literature on public corporations and are considered the building blocks of good corporate governance: board composition with an emphasis on board diversity, separation of the roles of CEO and chairperson, CEO tenure, directors’ tenure, director elections, directors independence, use of external gatekeepers, such as accounting firms and legal counsels, and the extent of their involvement. We then analyzed the data we collected and compared our findings to the existing data on public corporations.

Surprisingly, our findings reveal that there is no significant governance gap between the 200 largest private companies and public corporations. There are some differences on various metrics between the private companies we studied and public corporations, but the disparities are mostly not substantial and do not give rise to serious concerns. On most good governance metrics, private companies do as well as the flagship corporations. Furthermore, we observed no critical difference in the governance of the largest and smallest private companies in our sample. Even though on some metrics the largest companies did better than the smallest ones, on our parameters we obtained the opposite result and for most variables there were no differences at all. On the whole, the smallest companies in our sample did as well as the largest ones.

We proceed to discuss five theories that explain our unexpected results and explore the policy implications of our findings. Concretely, we examine the need to impose additional regulation on the largest private companies and weigh the option of adopting a model code for private companies that can inform the development of their future governance. We conclude that the governance in the 200 largest private companies does not establish a prima facie case for a regulatory intervention and that the best path forward is to continue to monitor and study the governance of the largest private companies to ensure that it remains in high standing.

Keywords: Private Companies; Corporate Governance; Board Composition; Gender Diversity; Acculturation

Suggested Citation:

Parchomovsky, Gideon and Eckstein, Asaf, Where the Wild Things Are? The Governance of Private Companies (March 19, 2023). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4393111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4393111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
737
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,434
RANK
79,220
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies