Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing Claims to Cryptoassets

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023/27

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 23-26

FutureFinTech Working Paper Series

30 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2023 Last revised: 6 Apr 2023

Jannik Woxholth

University of Luxembourg

Dirk A. Zetzsche

Universite du Luxembourg - Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance; European Banking Institute

Ross P. Buckley

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - UNSW Law & Justice

Douglas W. Arner

The University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

At the height of the ‘crypto winter’, with several crypto-intermediaries filing for insolvency and subjected to schemes of arrangement, who owns what and who has a claim on what becomes all important. Meanwhile, Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT) are frequently presented as a digital solution to these perennial problems of competing claims to the same asset. This article makes two contributions to the literature: First, we show that neither technology nor law solves the competing claims issue. Second, we suggest policy solutions based on a comparative legal analysis. In essence, the law must: (1) recognise property rights in cryptoassets, (2) provide for negotiability based on the assertion of control over private keys, and (3) facilitate the enforcement of titles in cryptoassets by the interplay of private and financial law.

Keywords: Digital Assets, Cryptoassets, Crypto-assets, Cryptocurrency, Negotiability, Private Law, Property

Suggested Citation:

Woxholth, Jannik and Zetzsche, Dirk Andreas and Buckley, Ross P. and Arner, Douglas W., Competing Claims to Cryptoassets (December 12, 2022). University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023/27, UNSW Law Research Paper No. 23-26, FutureFinTech Working Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4394952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4394952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
K See , E Low , Teo
) Law, Innovation and Technology 235, 245. 31 The division goes at least back to Colonial Bank v Whinney , volume 9 Posted: 2017
See UK Jurisdiction Taskforce (n 26) paras 67-68. 32 UK Jurisdiction Taskforce (ibid) para 67
See UK Jurisdiction Taskforce , p. 66 - 84
EWHC 2596 (Ch) (where Birrs J noted that there 'was no suggestion that cryptocurrency cannot be a form of property
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,163
RANK
98,491
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies