Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trivialization of the Bottom Line and Losing Relevance of Losses

Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming)

31 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2023 Last revised: 26 Jun 2023

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: June 25, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to illustrate the growing limitations of the current methods of calculating earnings, particularly when earnings is a negative number. Earnings, presumably the most important output of a financial reporting system, is not a singular metric. It is obtained by subtracting numerous expense line items from revenues, both of which are calculated after applying a diverse, and often inconsistent, set of accounting conventions. Despite this apparent deficiency, earnings could be informative of recurring profits, if revenues are measured correctly and expenses are traced to revenues. However, both principles are increasingly violated for the cohorts of firms listed in the last 30 years, which now constitute over 80% of the set of listed firms. Revenues of recent cohorts do not capture many events that create recurring cash flows. Their operating expenses are dominated by intangible outlays that are unmatched to current revenues. As a result, newer cohorts’ profits and profit margins, especially when negative, offer little to inform future profits. Given that revenue and expense recognition rules are unlikely to change anytime soon, the current developments raise a question: Should the reporting of the summary measure of earnings be voluntary instead of mandatory?

Keywords: Earnings, Income statement, Matching, Relevance, Losses, Listing cohorts, Intangibles, Knowledge economy

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Anup, Trivialization of the Bottom Line and Losing Relevance of Losses (June 25, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4395985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4395985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory
Journal of Political Economy , volume 58 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
J J Archambault , M Archambault
Financial reporting in 1920: the case of industrial companies
The Accounting Historians Journal , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 90 Posted: 2010
R D Arnott , C R Harvey , V Kalesnik , J T Linnainmaa
Reports of value's death may be greatly exaggerated
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 67 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,250
RANK
232,476
7 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies