Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Mandatory Sustainability Disclosure Associated with Default Risk? Evidence from Emerging Markets

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2023

Trung K. Do

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Xuan Vinh Vo

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Date Written: March 02, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of mandatory environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure on firms’ default risk. Using a comprehensive sample of 17 emerging countries, we empirically show that firms subject to the mandatory ESG regulation have decreased default risk subsequent to the mandate. This result is consistent with the argument that implementation of mandatory ESG disclosure improves corporate transparency and serves as a substitute for corporate governance mechanisms. Overall, our study supports the positive view of mandatory ESG disclosure and thus contributes to a timely debate on the pros and cons of the mandate in the economy and wider society.

Keywords: Mandatory ESG disclosure, Default risk, Monitoring, Emerging markets

JEL Classification: M14, G30, G33

Suggested Citation:

Do, Trung K. and Vo, Xuan Vinh, Is Mandatory Sustainability Disclosure Associated with Default Risk? Evidence from Emerging Markets (March 02, 2023). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4396306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
RANK
398,904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies