Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitude toward Using Information and Communication Technology Readiness: Study on Manager of Village-Owned Enterprises in Langsa City

The Seybold Reports, DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.6891797, 2022

16 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2023

Afrah Junita

Samudra University

Tuti Meutia

Samudra University

Riny Chandra

Samudra University

Syukriy Abdullah

Syiah Kuala University

Date Written: December 22, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to examine the effect of Optimism and Discomfort on Readiness to Apply ICT with innovativeness as a moderator. Research data were collected through questionnaires, using stratified random sampling. Respondents consisted of directors, secretaries, treasurers and managers of Gampong-Owned Enterprises in Langsa City. The results showed that innovation and optimism had a positive and significant effect on the readiness to apply ICT, while discomfort had no effect on the application of ICT. Innovativeness cannot moderate the effect of discomfort on ICT use, and innovativeness cannot moderate the effect of optimism on ICT adoption readiness.

Keywords: Optimism, Innovativeness, Discomfort, Application of ICT, BUMG

JEL Classification: M10, M20, M38, M40, O31, O38, R51, R53

Suggested Citation:

Junita, Afrah and Meutia, Tuti and Chandra, Riny and Abdullah, Syukriy, Attitude toward Using Information and Communication Technology Readiness: Study on Manager of Village-Owned Enterprises in Langsa City (December 22, 2022). The Seybold Reports, DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.6891797, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4396201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
272
RANK
897,300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies