Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank-Specific Variables and Financial Performance: A Case of Nepalese Development Banks

Sibakoti, R. & Pokharel, P. R. (2022). Bank specific variables and financial performance: A case of Nepalese development banks. BIC Journal of Management, 1(1), 69-77

9 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Post Raj Pokharel

Harvard Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd.; Kathmandu University School of Management; Boston International College

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

The paper is motivated to present the impact of bank-specific variables on the financial performance of Nepalese development banks. The study period is confined to 9 years, starting from the years 2069/2070 to 2077/78. The performance variables under investigation were return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE). The bank-specific variables were capital adequacy, asset quality, management efficiency, and liquidity. The findings of the study showed that management efficiency and liquidity have a positive impact on bank performance whereas capital adequacy and assets quality management has a negative impact on bank performance.

Keywords: bank-specific variables, performance, capital adequacy

Suggested Citation:

Pokharel, Post Raj, Bank-Specific Variables and Financial Performance: A Case of Nepalese Development Banks (November 25, 2022). Sibakoti, R. & Pokharel, P. R. (2022). Bank specific variables and financial performance: A case of Nepalese development banks. BIC Journal of Management, 1(1), 69-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4396054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Al-Qudah , A M
Macroeconomic and bank-specific variables and the liquidity of Jordanian commercial banks
The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business , volume 7 , issue 12 , p. 85 - 93 Posted: 2020
E M Ariyibi , L A Yunusa , T O Williams
Bank specific factors and bank performance: Evidence from Nigeria
Signifikan: Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 176 Posted: 2020
K Aziz , V J Khan , B Kumar , B P K
Impact of internal and external factors on bank performance in Pakistan
Journal of Public and International Affairs , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 66 - 77 Posted: 2018
B Capraru , I Ihnatov
Banks' profitability in selected central and Eastern European countries
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 16 , p. 4 - 5 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
162,079
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies