Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Promises and Perils of Corporate Purpose

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4397276

Kaplan, Sarah (2023), The Promises and Perils of Corporate Purpose, Strategy Science, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2023

Sarah Kaplan

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: February 3, 2023

Abstract

Corporate purpose is taking off as a concept within both the corporate world and management academia. Despite many bold pronouncements by companies about pursuing purpose and not just profits, evidence suggests that these are often decoupled from real action on social and environmental issues. In this essay, I grapple with a number of questions that arise for scholars and practitioners given the state of the field. Is the lack of progress intentional such that corporate purpose is just a power grab for firms to protect their influence and profits? Is making the business case for corporate purpose just part of this power grab? And, stepping back, what is corporate purpose anyway? And, how does it relate to trade-offs across stakeholders? Who counts as a stakeholder? How can we account for value distribution along with value creation? How can we conceptualize the firm if we take purpose seriously? What would it mean de-center the firm (and center the stakeholders) in the practice of corporate purpose? What governance structures are needed to enact corporate purpose? And, what are the implications for a new model of de-centered leadership? There are not a lot of answers yet, but this review of recent research in the domain spots many excellent clues and paths for future progress.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate purpose, stakeholders, corporate social responsibility, theory of the firm, trade-offs

JEL Classification: M10, L2

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Sarah, The Promises and Perils of Corporate Purpose (February 3, 2023). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4397276, Kaplan, Sarah (2023), The Promises and Perils of Corporate Purpose, Strategy Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4397276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4397276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
RANK
206,808
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies