Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hedge Fund Activism and Loan Loss Provisioning in U.S. Banks

56 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2023 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Dmytro Holod

Stony Brook University

Gokhan Torna

State University of New York-Stony Brook University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we explore the hedge fund activist influence on managerial decisions in the opaque banking industry. Focusing on loan loss provisions (LLPs), a discretionary item that is subject to managerial manipulations as well as pressures from various regulatory agencies, we find that hedge fund activists (HFAs) alleviate the agency problems associated with bank loan loss provisioning decisions. The findings show that HFAs lead to a substantial reduction in overstatements but not understatements of LLPs at target banks. This results in a prompt increase in bottom-line profitability and stock returns, while pointing to no appreciable change in bank risk. We conclude that the disciplinary effect of HFAs contributes to shareholder value by leading to a reduction in excessive loan loss provisioning consistent with a re-alignment of the LLP decisions with target bank shareholders’ interests.

Keywords: Hedge fund activism, Banking, Loan loss provisions, Transparency, Agency conflict, Shareholder value

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G31

Suggested Citation:

Holod, Dmytro and Torna, Gokhan, Hedge Fund Activism and Loan Loss Provisioning in U.S. Banks (December 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4398561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4398561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
V Agarwal , W Jiang , Y Tang , B Yang
Uncovering hedge fund skill from the portfolio holdings they hide
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 739 - 783 Posted: 2013
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signalling by Australian banks
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
M Arikan , M Kara , A Masli , Y Xi
Political euphoria and corporate disclosures: An investigation of CEO partisan alignment with the president of the United States
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
478,373
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies