Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ETF Activities and Analysts’ Forecasts

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6935-23

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

52 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2023 Last revised: 28 Oct 2024

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Xu Li

The University of Hong Kong

Mei Sheng

The University of Hong Kong - HKU Business School

Date Written: October 22, 2024

Abstract

We document analysts of follower firms revise their earnings forecasts more efficiently (i.e., exhibit greater sensitivity) to earnings announcements of an announcer firm in the same sector ETF. We identify a possible channel for this result, i.e., because sector ETFs are more informative with respect to industry-level information, analysts learn directly and efficiently from ETFs about this type of information component in individual firms’ earnings. As a result, analysts have an opportunity to re-optimize their attention to firm-specific information and improve forecast accuracy. Furthermore, this revision is stronger when ETFs are more actively traded and when analysts are more constrained in their attention to individual firms. We also provide direct evidence that analysts increase their attention to firm-specific information following the initiation of a sector ETF using textual analysis of conference call scripts. Lastly, we utilize Russell index reconstitution to establish the causality of the forecast accuracy improvement following an increase in sector ETF ownership. 

Keywords: ETFs, Information Transfer, Sector ETFs, Analysts’ Forecasts, Analyst Learning

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, M41, D53

Suggested Citation:

Kothari, S.P. and Li, Jing and Li, Xu and Sheng, Mei, ETF Activities and Analysts’ Forecasts (October 22, 2024). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6935-23, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4398547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4398547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of Analysts' Overreaction/Underreaction to Earnings Information as an Explanation for Anomalous Stock Price Behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
V Agarwal , P Hanouna , R Moussawi , C W Stahel
Do ETFs Increase the Commonality in Liquidity of Underlying Stocks? Working Paper Posted: 2019
C Antoniou , F Weikai Li , X Liu , A Subrahmanyam , C Sun
Exchange-Traded Funds and Real Investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , p. 1043 - 1093 Posted: 2022
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive Investors, Not Passive Owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
Load more
2 Citations
VIDHAN K. GOYAL , DANIEL URBAN , WENTING ZHAO
Index Creation, Information Changes, and Financing*
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2025
Crossref
Wenjing Ouyang , Samuel H. Szewczyk , Jeffrey Miles
Female directors on the sensitivity of investment to growth opportunities
Accounting & Finance , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 713 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
521
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,319
RANK
123,344
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies