Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Committee Characteristics on Earnings Management in Nigerian Listed Firms

Technology Audit and Production Reserves, 1(4(69), 6–13, 2023; doi.10.15587/2706-5448.2023.272875

8 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2023

Abdulsalam Nasiru Kaoje

Usmanu Danfodiyo University (UDUSOK) - Dept. of Accounting

Mohammed Yusuf Alkali

Waziri Umaru Federal Polytechnic, Birnin Kebbi

Abubakar Moddibo

Federal University Birnin Kebbi

Date Written: January 30, 2023

Abstract

This study focuses on the effect of audit committee characteristics on earnings management among Listed Firms in Nigeria with aim to ascertain whether audit committee characteristics has effect on earnings management. Audit committee in an organization is to support firm’s governance and oversight functions with the regard to financial reporting, risk management system internal control structure, ethical accountability and internal and external audit functions. Earnings management is an attempt by managers to alter financial information either for their private gain or for the gain of stockholders. The study population was 190 firms listed in the Nigerian Stock Market. The study sample was 150 firms because 40 firms could not provide the needed data for the study as at 2014 to 2019. The study data was generated from the Thomson Reuters Data stream and other variables were handpicked from the firm’s annual reports covering the period of 2014–2019. A Generalized Least Square (GLS) estimator was used in estimating the parameters. The study provides positive and significant relationship between Audit Committee Independence (ACIND), Audit Committee Meetings (ACMT) and Earnings Management of listed Nigerian Firms in Nigeria. However, negative relationship between Audit Committee Size, Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Firm Size and Earnings Management was reported among the Listed Firms in Nigeria. Policy maker should provide policy on the composition of Audit for the committee members to clearly spelt out to enable members perform their functions effectively. Further study should look at diversity of audit committee, ethnicity, and religious influence because of the Nigerian diversity on ethnicity and religion.

Keywords: audit committee, financial expertise, firm size, earnings management, discretionary accruals, Listed Firms in Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Kaoje, Abdulsalam Nasiru and Alkali, Mohammed Yusuf and Moddibo, Abubakar, The Effect of Audit Committee Characteristics on Earnings Management in Nigerian Listed Firms (January 30, 2023). Technology Audit and Production Reserves, 1(4(69), 6–13, 2023; doi.10.15587/2706-5448.2023.272875, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4398787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
777
RANK
229,218
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies