Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Types of CEO Turnover: Evidence from US Firms

17 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2023

Dmitriy Chulkov

Indiana University Kokomo - School of Business

Xiaoqiong Wang

Indiana University Kokomo

Date Written: January 07, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and different types of CEO turnover. Our findings based on a sample of over 2,500 publiclytraded US firms clarify how firms' CSR engagement relates to CEO turnover by reason and source of new CEO. Firms with higher CSR scores are positively associated with the firing of CEOs and negatively associated with normal retirements. Low CSR firms are more likely to experience contender successions that indicate a power struggle within the firm's management. This relationship becomes stronger when other members of the top management team leave a firm at the time of CEO turnover. These results suggest that CSR measures serve as an indicator of good corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance, Financial Economics

JEL Classification: G30, J63, M14, M50

Suggested Citation:

Chulkov, Dmitriy and Wang, Xiaoqiong, The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Types of CEO Turnover: Evidence from US Firms (January 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4400083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4400083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
J Barron , D Chulkov , G Waddell
Top Management Team Turnover, CEO Succession Type, and Strategic Change
Journal of Business Research , volume 64 , issue 8 , p. 904 - 910 Posted: 2011
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Y Cai , H Jo , C Pan
Vice or virtue? The impact of corporate social responsibility on executive compensation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 104 , p. 59 - 173 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
882
RANK
527,931
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies