Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Enforcement and Bank Transparency under Hierarchical Supervision in a Banking Union*

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 29, 2023

55 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2023

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Nicolas Rudolf

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Ferdinand Elfers

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: March 27, 2023

Abstract

Supervisors frequently intervene in banks' financial reporting practices. Existing literature robustly demonstrates that strict supervisors enhance bank transparency. However, many supervisory frameworks are hierarchical, involving multiple supervisors with varying objectives. In cases where bank reporting relies on management discretion, such as loss estimation or asset valuation, these supervisors potentially differ in their assessment of the most adequate accounting choice. Even if the central supervisor is strict, it is unclear how the coordination with more lenient local supervisors affects banks' reported accounting figures. The European Banking Union offers one such setting with multiple supervisors involved in accounting enforcement. Upon adoption of the Banking Union, the European Central Bank (ECB)'s Asset Quality Review revealed the preferred valuation of assets by the new central supervisor. The ECB's valuation preferences deviated from many banks' actual reporting choices, despite the latter being compliant with IFRS and accepted practice by the local supervisor. While we observe an adaptation of banks' financial accounting to the non-binding preferences of the central supervisor, there is substantial variation across jurisdictions with different local supervisors. The effect is particularly weak when the fundamental reporting objectives of the central and local supervisors are misaligned and particularly strong when combined supervision plausibly mitigates regulatory capture. Overall, the reporting changes are associated with greater informativeness of banks' provisioning. Our findings underscore that supervisory influence in a multi-layered supervisory system extends beyond the assurance of formal compliance with accounting standards and plays a critical role in shaping bank transparency.

Keywords: JEL classification: M41, M48, G20, G21, G28 Single Supervisory Mechanism, Asset Quality Review, Loan Loss Provisions, Financial Institutions, International Accounting, Enforcement

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G20, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Rudolf, Nicolas and Elfers, Ferdinand, Accounting Enforcement and Bank Transparency under Hierarchical Supervision in a Banking Union* (March 27, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 29, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4401038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4401038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
V V Acharya , L Borchert , M Jager , S Steffen
Kicking the can down the road: Government interventions in the European banking sector
Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 4090 - 4131 Posted: 2021
V V Acharya , S Steffen
Making sense of the comprehensive assessment
SAFE Policy Letter Posted: 2014
S Agarwal , G Amromin , I Ben-David , S Dinc
The politics of foreclosures
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 6 , p. 2677 - 2717 Posted: 2018
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
RANK
364,455
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies