Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shari’ah Governance Quality and Environmental, Social and Governance Performance in Islamic Banks: A Cross-Country Evidence

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2023

Yossra Boudawara

University of Sfax

Kaouther Toumi

University of Toulouse 3 - Laboratoire de Gestion et des Transitions Organisationnelles LGTO

Amira Wannes

University of Sfax

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: March 27, 2023

Abstract

The paper examines the impact of Shari’ah governance quality on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance in Islamic banks. The study’s sample consists of 66 Islamic banks from 14 countries over 2015-2019. The research uses the Heckman model, which is a two-stage estimation method to obtain unbiased estimates, as ESG scores are only observable for 17 Islamic banks in Eikon Refinitiv database at the time of the analysis. The analysis shows that Shari’ah governance has a beneficial role to achieve ESG performance. It also shows that enhanced profiles of Shari’ah supervisory boards’ attributes are more efficient than the operational procedures to promote ESG performance. In addition, the analysis shows that enhanced Shari’ah supervisory boards’ attributes strengthen the bank’s corporate governance framework while sound-designed procedures increase the bank’s social activities by emphasizing their roles to ensure Shari’ah compliance. Finally, the analysis sheds light on the failure of Shari’ah governance to promote environmental performance.

Keywords: Environmental Performance; Social Performance; Governance Performance; Corporate Governance; Shari’ah Governance; Maqasid al-Shari’ah.

Suggested Citation:

Boudawara, Yossra and Toumi, Kaouther and Wannes, Amira and Hussainey, Khaled, Shari’ah Governance Quality and Environmental, Social and Governance Performance in Islamic Banks: A Cross-Country Evidence (March 27, 2023). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4402181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4402181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
RANK
422,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies