Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enemy at the Gates: IPOs and Peer Firms’ Voluntary Disclosure

54 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2023

Xiaoxu Ling

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Yong Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of completed IPOs on industry peers’ voluntary disclosure. Prior research suggests that IPO issuers pose greater competitive threat through improved financing capability and risk tolerance. We expect peer firms to respond by reducing their information disclosure. Employing a difference-in-differences specification that uses withdrawn IPOs as benchmarks, we find a significant decrease in the likelihood and frequency of public incumbents’ management guidance around IPO completion in their industries. The results are robust to using NASDAQ fluctuations as an instrument for IPO completion. The effect is more pronounced when IPOs are large or successful, when peers are financially constrained, and when peers and issuers are strategic substitutes. Additional analyses find decreases in the flow of industry-level information and the decision-usefulness of peer stock prices post-IPO-completion. Overall, we provide new evidence on the disclosure response of public incumbents to completed IPOs and the resulting changes in the information environment.

Keywords: Initial public offerings, Voluntary disclosure, Competition, Information environment

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Xiaoxu and Zhang, Ivy and Zhang, Yong, Enemy at the Gates: IPOs and Peer Firms’ Voluntary Disclosure (February 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4402606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4402606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
RANK
291,202
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies