Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Research Study on Corporate Governance Significance of Independent Directors in Indian Corporate Sector

Education and Society, Vol-47, Issue-1, No.-6, January-March : 2023

Posted: 15 Nov 2023

Dr. M Sakthivel Murugan

Dhanraj Baid Jain College

S. Ganapathy

Sri Amaraavathi College of Arts and Science, Karur, Tamil Nadu, India.

T. Sujatha

Vels Institute of Science Technology & Advanced Studies

Date Written: January 29, 2023

Abstract

Good corporate governance is based on efficiency and effectiveness of Independent directors. Independent Directors (ID) in the board is crucial to ensure that board is crucial to ensure that board fulfills its objectivity and holding the management accountability of the company. This paper focus on highlighting the role of independence of independent directors. Independent Directors are very much significant and crucial to ensure good Corporate Governance.

Keywords: Independent Directors, Corporate Governance, Protection, Share Holders, Interest, Disclosure Power

Suggested Citation:

Murugan, Dr. M Sakthivel and Ganapathy, S. and Sujatha, T., The Research Study on Corporate Governance Significance of Independent Directors in Indian Corporate Sector (January 29, 2023). Education and Society, Vol-47, Issue-1, No.-6, January-March : 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4403711
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies