Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Select Cement Manufacturing Companies in India

Journal of the Oriental Institute, ISSN: 0030-5324, UGC CARE LIST NO. 135, Vol. 71, Issue. 01, No.15, 2022, pp. 217-220

Posted: 27 Apr 2023

Sathishkumar R

SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Trichy

T. Madhumitha

Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology

S. Keerthana

Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

The present study is conducted to estimate the contribution of cement manufacturing companies towards the Corporate Social Responsibility activities in accordance with the New Companies Act of 2013 and examine the CSR trend and its performance in various dimensions. The present study is based on the secondary data, which is collected from the published annual reports of the company. For analyzing the data, the study selects the leading cement manufacturing companies in India namely Ultra Tech Cement Limited, Ramco Cement Limited, and JK Cement Limited. The study collected the financial data of the company from the year 2014-15 to 2020-2021. To analyze the data, the researcher applied ratios for various dimensions analyses for assessing the association between the amount spent towards CSR and performance of the company in liquidity, profitability and solvency of the sample companies.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Profitability, Liquidity, Solvency, Efficiency, Overall Performance

Suggested Citation:

R, Sathishkumar and Madhumitha, T. and Keerthana, S., Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Select Cement Manufacturing Companies in India (March 29, 2022). Journal of the Oriental Institute, ISSN: 0030-5324, UGC CARE LIST NO. 135, Vol. 71, Issue. 01, No.15, 2022, pp. 217-220, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404034
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Materials Processing & Manufacturing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies