Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Facilitating Tacit Collusion Through Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Common Ownership

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 5, December 2022

Posted: 13 Apr 2023

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether voluntary disclosure is associated with incentives for firms to collude. Public disclosure can facilitate collusion by aiding with coordination and monitoring for defections. Using common ownership (investors holding stock in competing firms) to identify reduced incentives to compete, we find a positive association between public disclosure and these incentives. We also find that common ownership is positively associated with measures of disclosure that are likely to facilitate tacit collusion and that this association is stronger in industries where collusion is easier. Our study expands the literature on disclosure and competition among firms by showing that public disclosure is positively associated with incentives for tacit collusion. This finding is consistent with managers facilitating anticompetitive outcomes using voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: disclosure; tacit collusion; common ownership; competition; anticompetitive effects

JEL Classification: D22, G34, L11, L41, L44, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pawliczek, Andrea and Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Zechman, Sarah L. C., Facilitating Tacit Collusion Through Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Common Ownership (December 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 5, December 2022 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404173
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies