Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meeting with Creditors in Front of the Black Mirror: Information Security Certification and Corporate Debt Structure

55 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2023 Last revised: 6 Nov 2023

Jiaxin Wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Xiang Huang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

We explore how a firm’s obtaining an information security certification, which confirms the confidentiality, integrity, and security of firm information and mitigates cyber risks, affects its corporate debt structure. We find that firms adopt a more concentrated debt structure after obtaining an International Organization for Standardization (ISO) information security certification. The effect is more pronounced for firms that are state-owned, that have a higher degree of digital transformation, that have a more concentrated supply chain, and that operate in more-competitive industries. In addition, obtaining an information security certification leads a firm to reduce its share of public bond financing and increase its share of bank loans. Furthermore, firms concerned with information security tighten their debt structure to reduce the attention paid by many different types of creditors to their information and lower the probability of information being leaked. Overall, our evidence suggests that because obtaining an information security certification requires a firm to have a high level of data confidentiality, firms adopt a more concentrated debt structure to limit the dissemination of their proprietary information to outsiders.

Keywords: Debt Structure; Information Security Certification; Cyber Security

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Jiaxin and Huang, Xiang and Ni, Xiaoran and Chan, Johnny, Meeting with Creditors in Front of the Black Mirror: Information Security Certification and Corporate Debt Structure (November 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
V V Acharya , T Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
M Ashraf , J Sunder
Can shareholders benefit from consumer protection disclosure mandates? Evidence from data breach disclosure laws
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
P Asquith , R Gertner , D Scharfstein
of financial distress: An examination of junk-bond issuers
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 658 Posted: 1994
K Ayotte , Skeel Jr , D A
Bankruptcy law as a liquidity provider
University of Chicago Law Review , p. 1557 - 1624 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
640,233
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies