Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expanding Audit Committee Searches with Machine Learning Models

56 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2024

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Joshua Hunt

Mississippi State University

Justin Short

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

Companies often rely on their own networks when searching for new directors, which inherently limits their search. In this study, we demonstrate how machine learning could be used to expand the pool of potential audit committee (AC) candidates. Relative to the actual AC appointees, our machine-selected recommendations are more likely to be diverse (age, gender, and ethnicity) and to have more technical accounting, finance, industry, operating, and technology-related experience. Predicted AC director-specific performance using our models is positively associated with future monitoring effectiveness, suggesting that our machine-selection process is not random. Supporting concerns about ineffectiveness in the current nominating process, we demonstrate that appointments predicted to have worse performance are more likely to occur when the board is rushed to make a replacement, when the appointee has prior connections with the CEO or incumbent board members, and when director compensation is lower. 

Keywords: audit committees, board diversity, director labor market, machine learning, shareholder voting, proxy advisors

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Hunt, Joshua and Short, Justin, Expanding Audit Committee Searches with Machine Learning Models (August 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
717
RANK
451,432
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies