Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flu Fallout: Information Production Constraints and Corporate Disclosure

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper

Journal of Accounting Research, September 2023, 61(4): 1063-1108

75 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023 Last revised: 14 Nov 2023

Chen Chen

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Leonard Leye Li

UNSW Sydney

Louise Yi Lu

Australian National University

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

Using influenza epidemic data, we examine how constraints on corporate information production affect disclosure policies. We find that firms in areas with higher flu activity are less likely to issue short-run earnings forecasts and more likely to issue long-run earnings forecasts. These results are more pronounced when the information production process is more complex, when managers face a greater reputational loss for issuing low-quality short-run forecasts, and when firms’ costs of switching the forecast horizon are lower. Further analysis implies that the effect of flu activity on these forecast issuance decisions is not driven by firm performance or information uncertainty. Our results suggest that managers do not simply avoid issuing forecasts in response to information production constraints. Instead, they shift the forecast horizon from short-run to long-run, appearing to balance the costs of issuing low-quality forecasts with those of not issuing forecasts at all.

Keywords: information production constraints, flu epidemic, management forecast, corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: D8, M41, I10, I18, J10, J32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chen and Li, Leonard Leye and Lu, Louise Yi and Wang, Rencheng, Flu Fallout: Information Production Constraints and Corporate Disclosure (March 31, 2023). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Journal of Accounting Research, September 2023, 61(4): 1063-1108, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
F Akbas , S Markov , M Subasi , Weisbrod , E
Determinants and consequences of information processing delay: Evidence from the Thomson Reuters institutional brokers' estimate system
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , p. 366 - 388 Posted: 2018
S P Baginski , Rakow , K C
Management earnings forecast disclosure policy and the cost of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
349,044
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies