Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Ownership and Carbon Emissions

61 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023

Marcin Borsuk

University of Oxford - Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment

Nicolas Eugster

University of Queensland - Business School

Paul-Olivier Klein

Magellan, iaelyon, Jean-Moulin Lyon 3

Oskar Kowalewski

IESEG School of Management; LEM - CNRS 9221; Polish Academy of Sciences

Date Written: March 30, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between family ownership and carbon emissions using a large cross-country dataset comprising 6,610 non-financial companies over the period 2010-2019. We document that family firms display lower carbon emissions, both direct and indirect, when compared to non-family firms, suggesting a higher commitment to environmental protection by family owners. We show that this differential effect started following the 2015 Paris Agreement. Differences in governance structure, familial values, and higher spendings in R&D partly explain our results. Paradoxically, we find that family-owned firms and family CEOs commit less publicly to a reduction in their carbon emissions and have lower ESG scores, although polluting less. This suggests a lower participation in the public display of such an outcome and a lower tendency to greenwashing.

Keywords: carbon emission, ESG, governance, family firms, greenwashing, climate change

JEL Classification: G3, G38, M14

Suggested Citation:

Borsuk, Marcin and Eugster, Nicolas and Klein, Paul-Olivier and Kowalewski, Oskar, Family Ownership and Carbon Emissions (March 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,424
RANK
121,100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies