Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-term Accounting-based Plans and Managerial Myopia

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023

59 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2023

Ying Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Yanqiong Li

Shanxi University

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

In recent years, performance-based plans especially those based on multiple-year accounting performance (MAPs) become the biggest component of CEO pay. In contrast to traditional time-based stock options, the MAPs condition the granting of awards on accounting performance measured over multiple years, and are perceived to better align the long-term interests of managers and shareholders. However, we find that a disproportionately large (small) number of firms just beat (miss) the performance target of the MAPs. We further find that compared with non-adopters, MAP adopters engage in greater accrual- and real-earnings management, reduce their R&D investment, patent applications and acquisition activities. For the mechanisms, we find that the overlapping issuance of MAPs which subjects the CEO to annual performance evaluation is a significant cause of managerial myopia. In addition, managerial myopia is stronger when the MAP sets more challenging goals, uses earnings metrics as opposed to non-earnings metrics, has a greater impact on CEO pay, and when the plan is adopted by firms following their industry leaders. Our study shows that MAPs, the most popular compensation tool in the past two decades increase rather than decrease managerial myopia. Our study illustrates the high sensitivity of CEO myopic incentives to accounting earnings even when the performance is measured over longer horizons.

Keywords: long-term accounting-based performance plan, managerial myopia

JEL Classification: M41; G34

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Ying and Li, Yanqiong and Yang, Yong George, Long-term Accounting-based Plans and Managerial Myopia (March 31, 2023). Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
970
RANK
394,837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies