Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How did Banks' ESG Conduct Affect Financial Performance and Lending During COVID-19?

41 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2023 Last revised: 5 Dec 2023

Özlem Dursun-de Neef

Monash Business School - Department of Banking and Finance

Joaquin Forchieri

Independent

Thomas Gehrig

University of Vienna; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF); Systemic Risk Centre - LSE; London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE), Systemic Risk Centre, Students

Alexander Schandlbauer

University of Southern Denmark ; Danish Finance Institute

Date Written: December 3, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the link between ESG conduct and banks' stock performance during the COVID-19 crisis using a large global sample of banks. We find that a one standard deviation increase in a bank's ESG score is associated on average with a 0.14 percentage point lower daily stock returns during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Examining the potential drivers behind the negative impact of the ESG conduct, we show that banks with a higher fraction of retail investors are more affected. Last, we provide evidence for a negative association between banks' ESG performance and their lending in times of COVID-19, which is again relatively more pronounced for banks with a higher share of retail ownership.

Keywords: ESG, Sustainable banks, COVID-19, Bank lending

JEL Classification: G21, E51

Suggested Citation:

Dursun-de Neef, H. Özlem and Forchieri, Joaquin and Gehrig, Thomas and Schandlbauer, Alexander, How did Banks' ESG Conduct Affect Financial Performance and Lending During COVID-19? (December 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
V V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Whatever it takes: The real effects of unconventional monetary policy
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 9 , p. 3366 - 3411 Posted: 2019
M Adalet Mcgowan , D Andrews , V Millot
The walking dead? Zombie firms and productivity performance in OECD countries
Economic Policy , volume 33 , issue 96 , p. 685 - 736 Posted: 2018
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,593
RANK
314,223
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies