Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Loss by Dividend Payment: Application of Warren Buffet’s Dividend Policy

Nadar, D. S.,(2022). A Study of Value Loss by Dividend Payment : Application of Warren Buffet’s Dividend Policy. Empirical Economic Letters, 21(7).

Posted: 14 Apr 2023 Last revised: 21 Apr 2023

Diwahar Sunder Nadar

SVKM's Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS)

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

Berkshire Hathaway persists as an anomaly of being a mature company to achieve substantial stock returns while not paying dividends. The model created from Warren Buffet’s dividend policy was used to empirically calculate the value loss of S&P Aristocrat companies for the period of 2008 to 2020. Due to dividend payment, the aristocrats lost a value of $ 21,635,625 million in terms of book value and $390,992,663 million in terms of market value. With the aid of the Wilcoxon signed test it was observed that dividend payment is a significant event causing an impact on book value and market value. If the management of the company was strategically fit and consistently invest the available cash in profitable investment avenues, dividend payment and value loss would be avoided.

Keywords: Dividend, Value Loss, Warren Buffett, S&P Aristocrats

JEL Classification: G35

Suggested Citation:

Nadar, Diwahar Sunder, Value Loss by Dividend Payment: Application of Warren Buffet’s Dividend Policy (March 31, 2023). Nadar, D. S.,(2022). A Study of Value Loss by Dividend Payment : Application of Warren Buffet’s Dividend Policy. Empirical Economic Letters, 21(7)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405851
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies