Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Information Asymmetry and Decentralized Disclosure: Evidence from Textual Analysis of Company Responses to Investor Questions *

63 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2024 Last revised: 12 Apr 2024

Kelly Huang

Florida International University

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Guang Ma

Rutgers Business School at Newark and New Brunswick

Stanimir Markov

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: July 12, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the relation between internal information asymmetry and subordinate managers' engagement in answering investor questions at interactive disclosure events. We measure internal information asymmetry as the difference between non-CEO managers' and the CEO's trading profits on their own company's stock. We find that subordinates' engagement in the Q&A sessions of disclosure events increases with internal information asymmetry. More importantly, our results show that, when internal information asymmetry is higher, subordinates' answers are more specific and forward-looking relative to, and more different from, the CEO's answers. Finally, we demonstrate that, when internal information asymmetry is higher, subordinates' tone is incrementally more useful in predicting future earnings and future earnings announcement returns. Collectively, our results suggest that CEOs decentralize disclosure when subordinate managers possess relatively more information and such decentralization facilitates the release of costly-to-transfer internal information to external investors.

Keywords: Internal Information Asymmetry, Decentralized Disclosure, Subordinate Managers, Textual Analysis, Interactive Disclosure Events

JEL Classification: M41; L2

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Kelly and Li, Meng and Ma, Guang and Markov, Stanimir, Internal Information Asymmetry and Decentralized Disclosure: Evidence from Textual Analysis of Company Responses to Investor Questions * (July 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4406504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4406504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
S Baiman , D F Larcker , M V Rajan
Organizational design for business units
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 229 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
167,146
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies