Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Geo)Politics of Controlling Shareholders

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 696/2023

Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 580

29 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Curtis J. Milhaupt

Stanford Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

Corporate governance scholarship on controlling shareholders has focused almost exclusively on shareholder wealth diversion (“tunneling”) and creation (“idiosyncratic vision”). This essay shifts the focus to the fusion of political and economic power inherent in corporate control, and the wide-ranging geo-strategic and domestic political implications of this fusion beyond the boundaries of the firm. The approach is illustrated with examples from a variety of corporate capitalist systems operating globally today, and a survey of the numerous policy domains in which firms with controlling shareholders are key protagonists: national security, economic sanctions, stock exchange competition, corporate influence on domestic political systems, and ESG. Particularly in a period of heightened concern for corporate externalities and non-financial interests of stakeholders, analysis of the (geo)political dimensions of corporate control should be within the purview of corporate law scholars.

Suggested Citation:

Milhaupt, Curtis J., The (Geo)Politics of Controlling Shareholders (March 31, 2023). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 696/2023, Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 580, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4406516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4406516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
See Carl , E Walter , J T Fraser , Howie
Red Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundations of China's Extraordinary Rise (2011) for a critical account of this process
Nicholas Howson
China's "Corporatization without Privatization" and the Late Nineteenth Century Roots of a Stubborn Path Dependency, 50 Vand
J. Int'l L , volume 961 Posted: 2017
The State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) is an agency formed under the State Council (cabinet) ostensibly acting as an
Li-Wen See , Curtis J Lin , Milhaupt
We are the (National) Champions: Understanding the Mechanisms of State Capitalism in China, 65 Stan
L. Rev , volume 697 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,155
RANK
56,239
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies