Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Pension Bailouts: Evidence from the American Rescue Plan

51 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2023 Last revised: 25 Jun 2025

Michael Dambra

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Phillip J. Quinn

University of Washington Foster School of Business

John Wertz

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 24, 2025

Abstract

The American Rescue Plan Act (ARP) of 2021 authorized a first-of-its-kind taxpayer-financed bailout of private sector pension plans. We exploit the ARP to understand how bailouts affect the management and administration of pension plans. We document that following the ARP, multiemployer pension plans (MEPPs) that did not qualify for bailout relief are 35% more likely to amend their pension plan agreements to increase benefits and also tilt their asset allocations toward private equity and away from government debt. These proclivities to engage in increased moral hazard are concentrated in MEPPs, and not in unionized single-employer pension plans which were less impacted by the ARP’s provisions. We also document evidence consistent with MEPPs deploying opportunistic actuarial assumptions to increase the likelihood of qualifying for bailout relief. Our results are consistent with bailouts increasing the expectations of future government assistance and exacerbating moral hazard problems in the pension sector.

Keywords: American Rescue Plan, pension bailouts, multiemployer pension plans, moral hazard, actuarial choice

JEL Classification: D62, G32, H81, J32

Suggested Citation:

Dambra, Michael and Quinn, Phillip J. and Wertz, John, Economic Consequences of Pension Bailouts: Evidence from the American Rescue Plan (June 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4406502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4406502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
H B Adler
Biden's gifting specialty bailouts with no reforms included. The Hill Posted: 2022-12-22
A Andonov , R M Bauer , K M Cremers
Pension fund asset allocation and liability discount rates
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 2555 - 2595 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,146
RANK
134,171
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies