Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Appraisal Quality, Performance Measures and Job Satisfaction of Universal Bank Employees

Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research. 12(2), 2023

Posted: 25 Jul 2023 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Henry Rufino

Tarlac State University

Date Written: April 1, 2023

Abstract

This descriptive – correlational study explored the relationship between employee job satisfaction to performance appraisal quality and performance measures. A total of 135 universal bank employees were the respondents of the study from all thirteen universal banks in the City of Tarlac, Philippines. Data were collected through survey questionnaire. The relationships between the variables were tested using Pearson correlation coefficient. Findings of the study showed that universal bank employees have experienced quality performance appraisal. Employees agreed that there is quality on performance appraisal in terms of clarity of performance expectations, level of communication, fairness of appraisal process and trust in supervisor. The study also found out that financial performance measures and non-financial performance measures that include internal operating performance measures, employee-oriented performance measures and customer-oriented performance measures are reported and discussed with the employees at high extent. Overall, universal bank employees are satisfied at work. However, universal bank employees are dissatisfied in operating conditions and procedures. The study concluded that employee job satisfaction is significantly related to performance appraisal quality and to its four indicators. Likewise, employee job satisfaction is significantly related to performance measures and to its four perspectives. The study contributes to human resource management and performance management system.

Keywords: Performance Appraisal Quality, Performance Measures, Job Satisfaction, Universal Banks

Suggested Citation:

Rufino, Henry, Performance Appraisal Quality, Performance Measures and Job Satisfaction of Universal Bank Employees (April 1, 2023). Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research. 12(2), 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407553
 Not Available for Download
66 References
R Agyare , G Yuhui , L Mensah , Z Aidoo , I Ansah
The impacts of performance appraisal on employees' job satisfaction and organizational commitment: A case of microfinance institutions in Ghana
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 11 Posted: 2016
J Alajlouni
Job satisfaction and performance in Jordanian banks
International Journal of Humanities and Social Science , volume 5 , p. 110 - 119 Posted: 2015
M S Allahem
The impact of monetary and non-monetary rewards on job satisfaction
A case study of Saudi bank in Qassim Posted: 2018
G P W Antara , N Landra , A A Putu Agung
The effect of performance appraisal and work environment towards employee performance mediated by job satisfaction
International Journal of Contemporary Research and Review , volume 11 , issue 5 , p. 21798 - 21806 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies