Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research on State-Owned Shareholdings and Credit Risk: The Perspective of Mixed Ownership Reform in China's Banking Sector
Heliyon

22 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2023 Publication Status: Preprint

Qian Wang

Jilin University (JLU) - School of Economics

Jingbo Zhang

Jilin University (JLU) - School of Economics

Abstract

Non-performing loans(NPLs) of commercial banks hamper the development of Chinese banking sector for long. The state-owned shareholdings representing the willingness of government intervention are taken as the driven factor for the high NPL ratio of commercial banks. In the process of deepening mixed-ownership reform, the three types of Chinese commercial banks adopt different state-owned shareholding change strategies: the average of state-owned shareholdings’ ratio in the state-owned commercial banks(SOCB) is always much higher than that in the joint-stocked commercial banks(JSCBs) and city and rural commercial banks(CRCBs), however, the average ratio of state-shareholdings in JSCBs and CRCBs increase slightly since SOCBs decreased a little bit. This paper discusses the heterogeneous impact of state-owned shareholdings on credit risk in China’s three types of commercial banks in mixed-ownership reform. Using bank data for 2008–2020, We find that state-owned shareholdings significantly increase the credit risk of SOCBs and JSCBs, but decrease the credit risk of CRCBs. This paper also finds the transmission mechanisms of state-owned shareholdings impacting on credit risk are different among the three types of banks: loan scale is the mediating channel in SOCBs, leverage is in JSCBs and capital adequacy ratio is in CRCBs.

Keywords: commercial bank, credit risk, state-owned shareholdings, mixed-ownership reform, heterogeneity.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Qian and Zhang, Jingbo, Research on State-Owned Shareholdings and Credit Risk: The Perspective of Mixed Ownership Reform in China's Banking Sector. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4408463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4408463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies