Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'No Comment': Language Frictions and the IASB's Due Process

Contemporary Accounting Research, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2023 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo - School of Economics, Business and Accounting

Brian Monsen

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Emily Shafron

Texas A&M University - College of Business and Technology

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) asserts that global stakeholder participation in the standard-setting process is critical for developing and maintaining high-quality accounting standards. However, the myriad languages used in countries that apply International Financial Reporting Standards may impede this participation. We find that the IASB is less likely to receive comment letters from stakeholders in countries with languages that are linguistically distant from English. We also find that comment letters from more linguistically distant stakeholders are less likely to be quoted in IASB staff-prepared comment letter summaries, suggesting that they have less influence in the redeliberation process. Path analyses show that this result arises from language frictions being associated with reduced writing quality and originality. We also find that language frictions prevent participation in other standard-setting communication channels. Collectively, language frictions appear to impede the IASB’s efforts to equitably obtain and consider valuable global feedback.

Keywords: IFRS, language frictions, standard setter, lobbying, comment letters, diversity

JEL Classification: D72, D78, D91, F38, G15, L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Flores, Eduardo and Monsen, Brian and Shafron, Emily and Yust, Christopher, 'No Comment': Language Frictions and the IASB's Due Process (March 1, 2024). Contemporary Accounting Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4408178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4408178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
K D Allee , L S Anderson , M J Crawley
The impact of linguistic distance and financial reporting readability on foreign holdings of U.S. stocks Posted: 2023
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard-setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
A Appelman , M Schmierbach
Make no mistake? Exploring cognitive and perceptual effects of grammatical errors in news articles
Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 930 - 947 Posted: 2018
A Baker , D F Larcker , C Y C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Kirstin Becker , Ulfert Gronewold , Katharina Weiß
Using legitimacy strategies to secure organisational survival over time: the case of EFRAG
Accounting and Business Research , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 271 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Hung Wan Kot , Lewis Tam , Xin Xu
Lexical similarity in corporate announcements and its valuation impact: Evidence from profit warnings in Hong Kong
59 Pages · Posted: 10 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 10 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
229,982
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies