Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Level of Triple Bottom Line (TBL) Reporting Coverage: Evidence from Nigerian Banking Sector

International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), January 2023, Volume 10, Issue 1

10 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2023

Emmanuel Obiora Nwakeze

Grundtvig Polytechnic, Oba, Nigeria; Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN)

Date Written: January 23, 2023

Abstract

Various studies have already established the place of Triple Bottom Line (TBL) reporting in fostering better social, environmental, and financial organizational performance; and in meeting the information needs of myriad stakeholder.. But the greater number of these studies have dwelled majorly on the so-called ‘environmentally sensitive sectors’; giving lesser emphasis on sectors like the financial service sectors. However, this research submits that every company, or sector of any economy, should be expected of similar environmental sensitivity; should align with GRI’s position - of companies/sectors being responsible for their social, environmental, and financial impacts, and thus make appropriate disclosures. This is why the main objective of the study is to assess the level of TBL reporting coverage in the banking sector of Nigeria. The top 10 largest banks (by assets) in Nigeria were used as sample cases. Content Analysis was the main methodology utilized, where the content of sampled banks’ Annual Reports, and/or Sustainability Reports, were critically examined and scaled against the 33 different GRI disclosure indicators. The study found among others, an above average level of TBL reporting coverage by 70% of the sampled banks; that the extent of TBL reporting coverage is not always, and entirely, dependent on the size of ‘multinational’ companies; and that there are little or no disclosure(s) on some of the GRI indicators (Freedom of Association & Collective Bargain (FACB), Child Labour (CL), Forced or Compulsory Labour (FCL), Security Practices (SP), Right of Indigenous People (RIP), Water & Effluent (WE), Anti-Competitive Behaviour (ACB), and Procurement Practices (PP). The study however, recommends that disclosures should be extended to the aforementioned indicators to increase coverage and quality of reporting. It also recommends that the independent audit of banks’ Annual Reports and Accounts should be extended to their Sustainability Reports as well, to assure of the veracity of disclosures in-there before publication and consumption by stakeholders.

Keywords: Triple Bottom Line (TBL) Reporting, Sustainability Reporting, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Nigerian Banking Sector, Sustainability/Annual Reports

Suggested Citation:

Nwakeze, Emmanuel Obiora, Level of Triple Bottom Line (TBL) Reporting Coverage: Evidence from Nigerian Banking Sector (January 23, 2023). International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), January 2023, Volume 10, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4409444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
RANK
478,373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies