Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Fragility and Reclassification of Securities into HTM

25 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2023 Last revised: 21 Apr 2023

Joao Granja

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 4, 2023

Abstract

Held-to-Maturity (HTM) accounting allows banks to avoid using current market prices to value securities on their balance sheet. During 2022, the HTM portfolios of U.S. banks grew from \$2 to $2.75 trillion while their overall holdings of securities remained constant at $6 trillion. U.S. banks transferred $.9 trillion to their HTM portfolios by relabeling securities as HTM. Accounting rules determine that banks must have not only the intent but also the ability to hold securities to maturity when using HTM accounting. I find that banks with lower capital ratios, higher share of run-prone uninsured depositors, and more exposed to interest rate risks were more likely to reclassify securities to HTM during 2021 and 2022.

Keywords: Held-to-Maturity accounting; Accounting rules; Interest rate risk; Liquidity Risk

JEL Classification: G21; G28; M41; G32; E43

Suggested Citation:

Granja, Joao, Bank Fragility and Reclassification of Securities into HTM (April 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4409834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4409834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
987
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,546
RANK
30,930
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies