Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Intense Scrutiny over Financial Reporting Controls Impact Operational Outcomes?

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4411079

54 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2023

Andrea K. Down

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Marcy L. Shepardson

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2023

Abstract

In this study, we examine how intense scrutiny over financial reporting controls affects operating control outcomes. Increasing emphasis on internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) might require firms to modify resource allocations within control systems, such that the quality of operating controls could improve or deteriorate. Using a sample of firms subject to FDA inspections, we find that introducing intense scrutiny leads to improvements in operating controls, as evidenced by lower probabilities of regulatory deficiencies. Resource availability helps firms enhance the observed benefits, while resource constraints force firms to focus on financial reporting controls, at the expense of their regulatory compliance. Our results suggest that intensified ICFR scrutiny facilitates a complementary relationship between financial reporting and operating controls: firms implement system-wide changes that advance both functions. Identifying this positive externality is important because many stakeholders question whether the benefits of the increased ICFR focus introduced by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) outweigh the costs.

Suggested Citation:

Down, Andrea K. and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Shepardson, Marcy L., Does Intense Scrutiny over Financial Reporting Controls Impact Operational Outcomes? (April 2023). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4411079, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4411079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4411079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,019
RANK
308,851
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies