Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Corporations and Investor-State Arbitration

George Mason Law & Economics Research Paper No. 23-07

52 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2023 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Weijia Rao

Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

Policymakers and scholars have expressed concerns about growing corporate influence over government regulations, including in the context of investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS). Encouraged by high-profile victories and examples of “regulatory chill”, critics of ISDS have argued that it excessively serves large multinational corporate interests at the expense of government regulatory agendas. In part due to such criticisms, various proposals have been raised, including replacement of ISDS with multilateral investment courts or state-to-state arbitration.

Using a novel dataset on ISDS claimant characteristics, this article empirically explores whether large firms are more successful in (1) obtaining awards of damages, and (2) influencing government measures through ISDS. The data reveal that most ISDS claimants are actually small or medium-sized firms. Furthermore, the data reveal no evidence that large firms are more likely to prevail in ISDS cases. However, consistent with ISDS critics’ suggestions, cases brought by large firms appear more likely to end with repeal or amendment of the challenged measure.

Through case studies, this article proposes a plausible explanation for greater large corporate success in chilling government regulations. The case studies show that large corporations often employ multi-pronged approaches, combining ISDS with tactics such as lobbying, domestic litigation, international dispute settlement, and diplomacy. Consequently, this article cautions that replacing ISDS risks denying small or medium-sized firms the opportunity to seek redress before an international arbitral tribunal, without substantially addressing concerns of “regulatory chill” so long as other facets of such multi-pronged approaches remain viable.

Keywords: Large Corporations, Regulatory Chill, Investor-State Dispute Settlement, Corporate Influence

Suggested Citation:

Rao, Weijia, Large Corporations and Investor-State Arbitration (February 1, 2023). George Mason Law & Economics Research Paper No. 23-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4412161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4412161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Vodafone gained indirect control of an Indian telecom company, Hutchison Essar Limited. 170 Prior to the 2012 Amendment, Indian tax authorities approached Vodafone regarding the taxation of capital gains arising from the transaction, which involved Indian assets. 171 Vodafone did not comply with the tax demand and challenged it in Indian courts. 172 After the 2012 Amendment was enacted, Indian tax authorities renewed the tax demand on Vodafone, imposing a capital gains tax of $2.14 billion, which was later increased to $3.32 billion to include interest and penalties. 173 Vodafone protested the tax assessment and refused to pay the tax bill. 174 Similarly, in 2006, in an effort to consolidate its Indian assets under one Indian holding company (Cairn India), Cairn UK Holdings Limited (Cairn Energy) transferred its shareholding in Cairn India Holdings Limited to Cairn India. 175 As a result of the transaction, Cairn India acquired the entire Indian business of the Cairn group. 176 Under the 2012 Amendment, Cairn Energy was ordered to pay $1.6 billion in retroactive tax on capital gains from this transaction. With interest and penalties, the tax demand grew to $4.4 billion. 177 Both companies resorted to ISDS, challenging India's application of the 2012 Amendment in separate proceedings. 178 Vodafone filed two ISDS cases against India, one by its parent company in London under the U.K.-India BIT, the other one by its Dutch subsidiary under the Netherlands-India BIT. 179 In both cases
India, PCA Case No. 2016-07, Final Award Posted: 2020-12-21
Ravi Sawana
Impact of Vodafone Arbitration Award-An Analysis, B Posted: 2020-10-13
Cairn Energy, Final Award
Load more
1 Citations
Mark G. Maffett , Mario Milone , Weijia Rao
The Impact of Foreign Investors' Challenges to Domestic Regulations
University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4451762, Journal of Law and Economics (forthcoming) · 45 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 7 May 2025 · Downloads: 310
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,910
RANK
214,562
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Law & Economics Center at George Mason University Scalia Law School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies