Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits and Costs of Transparent Supervision of Public Banks: Evidence from Disclosure of SEC Comment Letters

52 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2023

Amy P. Hutton

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Susan Shu

Boston College

Ira Yeung

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: April 4, 2023

Abstract

Using the SEC’s 2004 decision to begin publicly disclosing its comment letters, we study the consequences of increased regulatory transparency on the banking industry. Because the SEC only issues comment letters to public banks, we exploit a difference-in-differences design to examine the effects of increased SEC transparency on banks’ financial reporting and lending decisions. We demonstrate that, compared to private banks, public banks improve the timeliness of their loan provisions. However, the effects of enhanced regulatory transparency on banks’ lending activities are mixed. On the one hand, increased transparency slows loan growth and exacerbates procyclical lending for public banks. On the other hand, greater transparency encourages public banks to shift credit towards safer borrowers. Further analyses shed light on the mechanisms underlying these shifts. Public banks receiving CLs in the public-disclosure period experience an increase in funding costs and intensified regulatory scrutiny from other bank regulators. Taken together, these empirical findings highlight the duality of regulatory transparency for the banking industry.

Keywords: SEC Comment Letters, Regulatory Transparency, Financial Institutions, Lending, Loan Loss Provisions

JEL Classification: G18, G21, G28, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hutton, Amy P. and Lin, Yupeng and Shu, Susan and Yeung, Ira and Zheng, Xin, The Benefits and Costs of Transparent Supervision of Public Banks: Evidence from Disclosure of SEC Comment Letters (April 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4412100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4412100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
RANK
302,262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies