Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt-Based Incentives in Executive Compensation Contracts

FEB-RN Research Paper No. 11/2024

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023

64 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2023 Last revised: 26 Apr 2024

Xingyu Huang

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

David M. Reeb

National University of Singapore - Dept of Accounting

Wanli Zhao

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine the inclusion of debt performance metrics (DPMs) into executive compensation contracts as a strategic response to the agency costs of debt. Using a manually collected dataset, we find that approximately 19% of US publicly traded firms incorporated DPMs in their compensation contracts between 2007 and 2020. The likelihood of including DPMs increases after creditors' mon-itoring incentives increase due to credit quality deterioration or debt maturity pressure. To facilitate causal inferences, we use the exogenous default of lenders' other clients and observe that focal companies are more likely to include DPMs in compensation contracts when lenders perceive an increased likelihood of future insolvency. We document that shareholders incorporate more non-debt metrics in their incentive programs in response to DPM inclusion, and they request the inclu-sion of DPM before corporate borrowing. Our results indicate that firms with DPMs in compensa-tion contracts reduce future R&D intensity and SG&A expenses. Our study highlights the im-portance of debt-related factors in executive compensation and contributes to understanding the agency costs of debt.

Keywords: Debt Performance Metrics (DPMs), Executive Compensation, Agency Conflict

JEL Classification: G32, J33, G30

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xingyu and Reeb, David M. and Zhao, Wanli, Debt-Based Incentives in Executive Compensation Contracts (April 24, 2024). FEB-RN Research Paper No. 11/2024, Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4413590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4413590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
B Akins , J Bitting , A De , D Gaulin , M
The salience of creditors' interests and CEO compensation Posted: 2019
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , C Kim , D Tsui
Creditor control rights and executive bonus plans Posted: 2023
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
S Balsam , Y Gu , C X Mao
Creditor influence and CEO compensation: Evidence from debt covenant violations
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 5 , p. 23 - 50 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Brian Akins , Jonathan Bitting , David De Angelis , Maclean Gaulin
CEO short‐term incentives and the agency cost of debt
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 1388 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,436
RANK
207,451
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance, Economics & Banking (FEB-RN) Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies