Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dancing with Analysts

73 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 12 Jun 2023

Mingze Ma

Saïd Business School, University of Oxford

Date Written: June 12, 2023

Abstract

Extensive theories and evidence predict that board gender diversity improves analyst forecast accuracy. Consistently, I find robust firm-level and firm-analyst-level evidence that female directors significantly reduce analyst forecast error when their number on the board reaches a critical mass of three or more. An instrumental variables approach identifies that this effect is concentrated in firms with high analyst coverage, implying that board-analyst interaction may play a role. I discover a board-side mechanism and an analyst-side mechanism that drive the results. From the board side, by correcting analysts’ misjudgments of earnings uncertainty, female directors persuade analysts not to make less accurate herding-negative forecast revisions. I dissect this mechanism using a simple theoretical model of analyst herding behavior and board persuasion and further empirically prove two propositions derived from the model. From the analyst side, forecast accuracy for firms with board critical mass is more closely linked to promotion and thus analysts have incentives to allocate more effort to these firms. Finally, the finding that the labor market does not reward analysts for outperformance achieved through herding-negative revisions suggests that the two mechanisms are intertwined with each other. Overall, I observe a win-win situation between analysts and female directors: Female directors avoid overly pessimistic forecasts, and analysts gain better career prospects. In other words, female directors dance in harmony with analysts.

Keywords: Board gender diversity, Critical mass, Corporate governance, Financial analysts, Earnings forecasts, Herding behavior, Uncertainty, Career concerns

JEL Classification: G24, G34, J16, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mingze, Dancing with Analysts (June 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4413151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4413151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
M Anisman-Razin , T Saguy
Reactions to tokenism: The role of individual characteristics in shaping responses to token decisions
European Journal of Social Psychology , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 716 - 731 Posted: 2016
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
427,290
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies