Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Institutional Pressure on Target Setting

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023

Ramji Balakrishnan

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Jizhang Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yang Xuan

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: April 11, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the desire to maintain sociopolitical legitimacy with critical stakeholders affects sales targets set by Chinese firms. Drawing from institutional theory, we argue that enterprises owned by local government (local-SOEs) feel greater pressure to maintain their legitimacy with the local government relative to private firms (non-SOEs), leading to a stronger association between the pro-vincial GDP target (a legitimate benchmark) and firm-level targets. Results from manually collected data support this conjecture and are robust to alternate measures and samples. Increases in the demand for legitimacy -- measured using exogenous shocks and sample characteristics -- strengthen the as-sociation. Finally, changes in the coverage in the official press and changes in target achievement rates document the real effects of this strategy. Our findings demonstrate the effects of institutional pres-sures on corporate decisions and enrich our understanding on the socially constructed as well as instrumental rationality role of management accounting.

Keywords: Keywords: Institutional pressure; Legitimacy; Target setting; State-owned enterprises

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Ramji and Huang, Jizhang and Xuan, Yang, The Influence of Institutional Pressure on Target Setting (April 11, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4414528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies