Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chilling Climate Change Disclosure: The Enabling Role of Corporate Counsel in Management Misstatements of ESG Matters

DePaul Law Review, Vol. 72, 2023

U Denver Legal Studies Research Paper No. 23-6

67 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2023

J. Robert Brown

University of Denver Sturm College of Law

Eli Wald

University of Denver Sturm College of Law

Date Written: April 7, 2023

Abstract

Regulation of Environmental and Social Governance (ESG) disclosure is necessary to ensure investors receive the information they want to have. Fortunately, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is considering adopting ESG rules. Unfortunately, such rules, if adopted, are likely to be ineffective. New ESG disclosure rules are going to fail for the same reason periodic disclosure rules have been ineffective: managers of publicly-traded companies systematically escape liability for failure to disclose material information to investors. Management escapes liability by pressuring securities lawyers to erroneously advise the companies that material information need not be disclosed, only to then turn around and rely on the lawyers’ erroneous advice to justify nondisclosure. Securities lawyers, in turn, escape accountability for their erroneous advice because they face antiquated and underenforced disciplinary rules. Consequently, the enabling role of corporate counsel in management misstatements of material information results in a chilling disclosure problem. The Article starts by documenting the ubiquitous role securities lawyers play in the disclosure process and shows how lawyers’ involvement leads to nondisclosure, which systematically benefits management and harms the public. Next, the Article establishes that the rules of professional conduct are antiquated and poorly fit the practice realities of securities lawyers and that the existing rules are underenforced by state disciplinary agencies ill-equipped to regulate the national securities practice. It also shows why other regulatory tools, such as the threat of civil liability and market controls, do not prevent lawyers’ erroneous nondisclosure advice. Finally, the Article calls on the SEC to solve the chilling disclosure problem by promulgating and enforcing appropriate rules, spelled out in the Article, to ensure disclosure of periodic and ESG material information to the investing public. Importantly, the Article develops a workable solution to address the failure of periodic disclosure and avoid ESG nondisclosure, without getting bogged down in the hired gun versus gatekeeper discourse that has dominated the literature for a while. Proponents of the hired gun ideology of corporate law practice argue that lawyers ought to defer to management unless they know the conduct to be criminal or fraudulent. Critics, vocal especially following expensive corporate scandals, assert that lawyers should act as gatekeepers and dissuade clients from wrongdoing. This Article points out that when it comes to fixing the chilling disclosure problem, theoretical disagreements about the Should – what lawyers should do – can be left for another day. Instead, the Article focuses on the Is – what lawyers actually do. Securities lawyers give advice about compliance with the law and because they face pressure from management to give erroneous advice but no consequences for doing so, they systematically advise nondisclosure. The SEC must promulgate and enforce rules that prevent securities lawyers from giving erroneous nondisclosure advice to ensure companies comply with mandatory disclosure of periodic and ESG material information.

Keywords: Securities law, corporate law, SEC, climate change, ESG, legal ethics

JEL Classification: K22 - Business and Securities Law, K32 - Environmental, Health, and Safety Law

Suggested Citation:

Brown, J. Robert and Wald, Eli, Chilling Climate Change Disclosure: The Enabling Role of Corporate Counsel in Management Misstatements of ESG Matters (April 7, 2023). DePaul Law Review, Vol. 72, 2023, U Denver Legal Studies Research Paper No. 23-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4414389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,238
RANK
355,741
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Denver Sturm College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies