Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Dividend Policy in India

Management Decision, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2023

Monika Dahiya

Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

Shveta Singh

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi - Department of Management Studies

Neeru Chaudhry

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi

Date Written: April 12, 2023

Abstract

Abstract
Purpose – The study investigates the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and dividend policy in the context of Indian firms, as well as how regulatory interventions in the form of mandated CSR can moderate this relationship.
Design/methodology/approach – A sample of the largest 500 non-financial companies listed on the National Stock Exchange from 2008 to 2019 is used in the study. We employ the system generalised method of moments (GMM) since this estimation technique yields accurate and consistent findings in a dynamic panel data setting.
Findings – We find that CSR is positively associated with dividend payments. Increased earnings and lower financial constraints are the likely factors causing this relationship. Additional analysis suggests that the positive relationship is stronger for mature firms and firms with higher information asymmetry. Financial reporting quality works in tandem with CSR to boost dividends. Regulatory interventions in the form of mandated CSR weaken the relationship between CSR and dividends. Finally, the speed of adjustment of dividends is relatively faster for socially responsible firms. The findings of the study are consistent when subjected to a series of robustness assessments.
Practical implications – The positive association between CSR and dividends suggests that the interest of shareholders and other non-financial stakeholders can be reconciled. Additionally, businesses should attempt to strategically implement their CSR plans in accordance with the requirements of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 to avoid any unfavourable moderating effects of the legislation. The results also show that CSR disclosures complement rather than serve as a substitute for financial disclosures.
Originality/value – The study is the first to evaluate the relationship between CSR and dividends in the context of India, which is a pioneer in passing legislation that mandates CSR for firms surpassing the specified threshold. The authors also identify financial constraints as a channel through which CSR affects dividends.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Dividends, Regulatory intervention, Speed of adjustment

JEL Classification: G35, G38

Suggested Citation:

Dahiya, Monika and Singh, Shveta and Chaudhry, Neeru, Corporate Social Responsibility and Dividend Policy in India (April 12, 2023). Management Decision, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4416815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,217
RANK
163,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies