Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attracting Female Directors in the U.S.: The Roles of Boards, Executives, and Other Stakeholders

Journal of International Accounting Research 22 (2): 57-81 https://doi.org/10.2308/JIAR-2021-096

Posted: 24 Apr 2023 Last revised: 6 Nov 2023

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Laurie Ereddia

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2023

Abstract

Previous research related to board gender diversity typically focuses on international settings outside of the U.S. In this study, we examine the influence of boards, executives, and other stakeholders in appointing a female director candidate to a U.S. board, which is a voluntary regime dominated by male candidates. Following institutional theory, social identity theory, and resource dependence theory, we find that boards, executives, and institutional investors play persistent roles across various time periods, company sizes, and levels of CEO power. Workforce and customer stakeholders have only become significant influencers in more recent years and in smaller firms. Understanding factors that allow firms to successfully attract female board members in a voluntary regime should be of interest to board members and regulators worldwide. Our findings should also be of interest to accounting academics examining the role of board gender diversity in the oversight of audit, financial reporting and tax policies.

Keywords: Board of directors, Gender diversity, Female directors, Board composition, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: G34, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Ereddia, Laurie, Attracting Female Directors in the U.S.: The Roles of Boards, Executives, and Other Stakeholders (July 2023). Journal of International Accounting Research 22 (2): 57-81 https://doi.org/10.2308/JIAR-2021-096, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4416598
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies