Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pay For(eign) Performance: CEO Pay Incentives for Foreign Tax Savings

60 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 27 May 2025

Katie Boylen

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Melissa Martin

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: May 27, 2025

Abstract

International corporate tax policy significantly influences corporate decisions, yet the financial motivations driving these strategies are rooted in executive compensation incentives. This paper investigates the relation between executive compensation and corporate tax policies, with a focus on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). Using a pay-performance sensitivity framework, we analyze the differing compensation rewards associated with domestic and foreign pre-tax incomes. Our findings reveal that before the TCJA, executives received significantly higher rewards for foreign income, encouraging the shifting of income abroad. The TCJA reduced this disparity, bringing compensation rewards for domestic and foreign income into closer alignment. Cross-sectional analysis shows that firms assessing CEO performance based on after-tax income exhibit greater sensitivity to changes in tax policy, establishing the presence of a tax mechanism. Additional tests eliminate alternative non-tax explanations related to protectionist trade policies and changes in foreign market growth opportunities. These results highlight the crucial role of executive incentives in corporate tax planning by emphasizing the significant impact of executive incentives on corporate tax behavior and the effectiveness of tax policy reforms. 

Keywords: CEO compensation, corporate taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Boylen, Kathleen and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Martin, Melissa, Pay For(eign) Performance: CEO Pay Incentives for Foreign Tax Savings (May 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4416371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Larcker , S Shi
Rank-and-file accounting employee compensation and financial reporting quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
T Atwood , T Johnson
US multinational corporations' initial income-shifting response to the TCJA Posted: 2021
A Auerbach
Measuring the effects of corporate tax cuts
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 32 , p. 97 - 120 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
274,044
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies