Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Capital and the Effects of Technology Shocks on the Characteristics of Earnings

60 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2023

Vivek Raval

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 21, 2016

Abstract

The objective of this study is to hypothesize and test the effects that the introduction of new productive technologies into an an economy have on the characteristics of earnings. To do this, I leverage theory from Eisfeldt and Papanikolaou (2013) that describes how economy-wide technology shocks affect the value of organizational capital, an important intangible asset. Because organizational capital is largely unrecognized in financial statements, I hypothesize that periods of technology shock are associated with lower earnings timeliness, particularly for firms with more organizational capital. I also hypothesize and find that technology shocks are associated with more subsequent goodwill impairment and restructuring, and that these associations are mediated by the quantity or efficiency of the firm's organizational capital. Findings demonstrate how investment in organizational capital creates exposure to aggregate technology shocks, the dynamics of which affect earnings quality.

Keywords: Organizational Capital, Human Capital, Earnings, Goodwill, Restructuring

JEL Classification: M41, E22, G12

Suggested Citation:

Raval, Vivek, Organizational Capital and the Effects of Technology Shocks on the Characteristics of Earnings (April 21, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4416581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies