Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seven Gaping Holes in Our Knowledge of Corporate Governance

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 914/2023

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4416663

17 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2023 Last revised: 3 May 2023

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 11, 2023

Abstract

In Closer Look, we highlight significant “holes” in our knowledge of corporate governance. These are central issues where insufficient or inadequate study has left us unable to answer basic questions, and where key assumptions relied upon by experts have not been verified or validated. While the concepts we review are not exhaustive, each is critical to our understanding of the proper functioning of governance, including board oversight, the recruitment of CEO talent, the size and structure of CEO pay, and the advancement of shareholder and stakeholder welfare.

We ask:

• What practices make a board effective?
• What are the real factors that determine whether a director is “independent?”
• How scarce is CEO talent, and how efficient is the labor market for CEOs?
• How much value is a CEO directly responsible for creating and how much pay should they be offered?
• Are companies currently aligning pay and performance in the right way?
• Does the composition of a company’s shareholder base influence the decisions the board and management make?
• What role should stakeholder needs play in corporate decision making? Would outcomes improve (or be worse) if more investment were made toward ESG?

Keywords: Corporate governance, board quality, board structure, board of directors, independence, labor market for CEO talent, CEO succession, succession planning, CEO compensation, pay levels, executive pay, pay for performance, pay mix, shareholder base, activist shareholders, index funds, passive sharehold

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, Seven Gaping Holes in Our Knowledge of Corporate Governance (April 11, 2023). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 914/2023, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4416663, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4416663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,021
RANK
36,333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies