Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entrusted Loans and Tunneling

36 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2023

Yongqiang Chu

Belk College of Business, UNC Charlotte

Zehao Liu

Renmin University of China - School of Finance

Huoqing Tang

Renmin University of China - School of Finance

Chengsi Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Finance

Date Written: April 12, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of a regulation in China that restricts perquisite consumption by managers of state-owned companies. We find that the regulation causes state-owned companies to issue more entrusted loans to other firms. Furthermore, entrusted loans issued by state-owned companies have lower interest rates and larger loan amounts. These results suggest that managers of state-owned companies use entrusted loans to extract personal benefits to compensate for the lost perquisite consumption due to the regulation.

Keywords: Entrusted Loans, SOE, Perquisite Consumption, Tunneling

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Yongqiang and Liu, Zehao and Tang, Huoqing and Zhang, Chengsi, Entrusted Loans and Tunneling (April 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4417266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4417266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
601,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies