Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collider Bias in Strategy and Management Research: An Illustration of How Women CEOs Affect Other Women’s’ Career Outcomes

68 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2023 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Justin Frake

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Andreas Hagemann

University of Michigan, Economics

Jose Uribe

Independent

Date Written: November 01, 2023

Abstract

Collider bias can cause spurious correlations when researchers condition on a variable that is caused by—or shares a common cause with—both the outcome and the exposure variable. We distinguish colliders from other threats to identification and estimation and illustrate its importance with a replication of published work suggesting that having a woman CEO reduces the career outcomes of other women executives. After accounting for collider bias, we find no evidence that women CEOs damage the career outcomes of other women in their organizations. We use Monte Carlo simulations to illustrate conditions that reduce or amplify the bias and provide generalizable approaches to identify and mitigate the risk of collider bias in applied research.

Keywords: collider bias, TMT, compensation, CEO

Suggested Citation:

Frake, Justin and Hagemann, Andreas and Uribe, Jose, Collider Bias in Strategy and Management Research: An Illustration of How Women CEOs Affect Other Women’s’ Career Outcomes (November 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4418418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4418418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
The American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D Y Albouy
The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation: Comment
The American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 3059 - 3076 Posted: 2012
G Bascle
Controlling for endogeneity with instrumental variables in strategic management research
Strategic organization , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 285 - 327 Posted: 2008
Load more
2 Citations
Justin Frake , Anthony Gibbs , Brent D. Goldfarb , Takuya Hiraiwa , Evan Starr , Shotaro Yamaguchi
From Perfect to Practical: Partial Identification Methods for Causal Inference in Strategic Management Research
85 Pages · Posted: 17 Oct 2022 · Last revised: 11 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 687
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jesse Burkhardt , Alexandra E. Hill
Bias Induced by Fixed Effects in the Presence of Collider Variables
30 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,195
RANK
292,443
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies