Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategically Becoming a Target:
The Impact of Antitrust Policies on Firm Growth

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

63 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2023 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Elizabeth Berger

University of Houston

David De Angelis

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Gustavo Grullon

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 20, 2025

Abstract

Acquirers circumvent antitrust regulatory scrutiny by targeting firms that command prices below exemption thresholds. This paper shows that potential targets actively engage in this regulatory arbitrage by strategically reducing their size beforehand, making themselves more attractive for stealth acquisitions. They achieve this primarily by limiting asset growth and increasing payouts when excess cash is available. The effect is particularly pronounced among firms with illiquid shares and high venture capital ownership, supporting exit strategy motives. Overall, our results reveal that while antitrust exemptions facilitate firm exits through M&A, they create incentives that are at odds with public policies intended to promote the growth of small firms.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Asset Growth, Target Firms, Hart-Scott-Rodino Act

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Elizabeth and De Angelis, David and Grullon, Gustavo,
Strategically Becoming a Target:
The Impact of Antitrust Policies on Firm Growth
(August 20, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4419213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4419213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Alvero , S Ando , K Xiao
Watch what they do, not what they say: Estimating regulatory costs from revealed preferences
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , issue 6 , p. 2224 - 2273 Posted: 2023
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
The fall of the labor share and the rise of superstar firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , issue 2 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
W Baer
New myths and old realities: Perspectives on recent developments in antitrust enforcement Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,506
RANK
247,189
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies