Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hanging in There for Employees: Managerial Prosocial Preferences, Firm Exit Thresholds, and Risk-Taking

60 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Daniel Keum

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Xin Lucy Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

When facing economic setbacks, managers may continue operating due to the concern that exiting may harm employees who lose their jobs. We propose that managers with higher prosocial preferences set lower exit thresholds and avoid risky investments that increase the risk of having to exit. These hypotheses are tested using a multi-method design. Our field study shows that, in responding to intensifying Chinese import competition, prosocial managers (e.g., those who volunteer at charitable organizations, lean non-Republican in political orientation, maintain employee-friendly policies, or are promoted internally) are less likely to exit, divest, and invest in R&D. A manager’s concern for employees mediates the negative effect of prosocial preferences on exit thresholds and risky investments (Experiment 1) and has larger effects when employees face a greater cost of job loss due to the loss of medical insurance (Experiment 2). We show that anticipated guilt is a key component of the prosocial cost (Experiment 3). Our study presents managerial prosocial cost as a critical input to corporate strategy and risk-taking.

Keywords: managers, exits, prosocial behavior, guilt aversion

JEL Classification: D91, G34, J65

Suggested Citation:

Keum, Daniel and Liu, Lucy, Hanging in There for Employees: Managerial Prosocial Preferences, Firm Exit Thresholds, and Risk-Taking (January 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4420492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4420492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
285,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies