Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the EU’s Directive on Non-Financial Disclosures of the Oil and Gas Industry

Forthcoming at Accounting Forum

47 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Mona Al-Dosari

King Faisal University

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Jenny Fairbrass

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: March 2022

Abstract

Owing to its substantial impact on the environment, economy, and society, we choose to examine the oil and gas industry, drawing on neo-institutionalist scholarship to concentrate on the mimetic, coercive, and/or normative effects discernible in the industry’s non-financial disclosure (NFD) behaviour. Focusing on Directive 2014/95/EU, we construct scores to assess the evolution of the sector’s NFD over time and the spillover effects beyond EU large and listed firms, the latter being directly subject to the legislation. We scrutinise NFD over a decade, producing three main results. First, we find that NFD increases immediately after the directive’s publication and further increases during the implementation phase. Second, the directive has a spillover effect, sparking significantly increased NFD among non-EU firms during the implementation period. Third, the NFD level of non-EU firms is associated with the number of EU employees and the extent of EU operations of these firms, but only following the implementation of the directive. These findings have clear repercussions for firms operating both inside and outside the EU as well as implications for EU public policymakers.

Keywords: Directive 2014/95/EU, Corporate social responsibility, Sustainability reporting, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Al-Dosari, Mona and Marques, Ana Cristina and Fairbrass, Jenny, The Effect of the EU’s Directive on Non-Financial Disclosures of the Oil and Gas Industry (March 2022). Forthcoming at Accounting Forum, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4421399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4421399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
667,795
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies