Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Inside Debt and Board Independence

72 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023 Last revised: 22 Jan 2024

Bonnie Buchanan

University of Surrey

Shuhui Wang

University of Surrey

Tina Yang

University of South Florida - Muma College of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 29, 2024

Abstract

CEO compensation is an outcome of the bargaining process between the board and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Whether the process reflects optimal contracting or managerial power remains one of the most fundamental and controversial topics. We contribute to the debate by being the first to study the role of independent directors in adjusting CEO inside debt. Consistent with the optimal contracting view, we find that firms with more independent directors adjust CEO inside debt more quickly toward the optimum level. Our results are stronger in financially unconstrained, growth, and under-levered firms, and firms led by more powerful or overconfident CEOs. We also find when the agency cost of CEO inside debt is low, board independence is associated with a slower adjustment speed. Our results have policy implications since executive compensation continues to grow in importance and our evidence suggests that independent directors make intricate tradeoff decisions when adjusting it.

JEL Classification: G3, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Buchanan, Bonnie and Wang, Shuhui and Yang, Tina, CEO Inside Debt and Board Independence (September 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4421411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4421411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2022
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
A M Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z ( Michael) Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
441,693
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies