Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity Secondary Markets

The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38738-9_62-1

Posted: 28 Apr 2023 Last revised: 10 Aug 2023

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 17, 2023

Abstract

This entry reviews the existing academic literature, and discusses recent trends, surrounding private equity secondary markets. Private equity secondary markets involve sales of ownership interests in a private fund from the fund’s current investors (i.e., limited partners) to new investors. Typically, limited partners transact directly with a fund, investing in the fund upon formation. After investing, limited partners’ ownership interests in the fund are illiquid, with capital generally tied up until the fund liquidates. However, in some cases, limited partners can exit their investment in a private fund through the secondary market. This entry first describes the private equity fund secondary market, covering both LP- and GP-led secondaries. To date, the academic literature has focused on LP-led secondaries. However, in recent years the number of GP-led secondaries has grown substantially, making up nearly half of all private equity secondary market transactions in 2022. The entry then summarizes two streams of research, the first covering research providing perspectives on the functioning of private equity secondary markets and the second covering empirical studies that analyze actual secondary market transactions.

Keywords: Private equity, Secondary market for private equity funds, Liquidity, Transaction costs, Limited partner trading, Private equity market intermediaries

JEL Classification: G12, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Private Equity Secondary Markets (April 17, 2023). The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38738-9_62-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4422541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4422541
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,793
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies