Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negotiation, Auction, or Negotiauction?! Evidence from the Field

62 Pages Posted: 11 May 2023 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Micah S. Officer

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Danni Tu

Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

We bridge theoretical negotiation and auction literature with real-world practice using a rich, hand-collected bid-level dataset covering high-stakes merger negotiations totaling nearly $5 trillion. Notably, full-scale private auctions are not common in selling firms, and many deals starting as auctions switch to negotiations with a single buyer at a later stage. The process often shifts, highlighting the fluid nature. Initiating bidders typically value the target higher and become the eventual winning bidders. Negotiations take about two-to-four months, involving two-to-six offers, with delays related to information asymmetry and valuation uncertainty. Interestingly, final premiums remain similar regardless of bid frequency. About 44% of targets counteroffer, usually settling at a midpoint between their and the bidder’s price. Our findings call for further developments in theories that consider the inherent interconnectedness between auctions and negotiations in real-world scenarios.

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Tingting and Officer, Micah S. and Tu, Danni, Negotiation, Auction, or Negotiauction?! Evidence from the Field (October 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4422506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4422506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Anat R Admati , Motty Perry
Strategic Delay in Bargaining
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 54 , p. 345 - 364 Posted: 1987
Kenneth R Ahern , Denis Sosyura
Who Writes the News? Corporate Press Releases during Merger Negotiations
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Nihat Aktas , Eric De Bodt , Richard Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,038
RANK
411,549
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies