Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Opaque Scorecard: Environmental, Social and Financial Information during a Crisis

41 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Mircea Epure

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; Barcelona School of Economics; UPF Barcelona School of Management

Serhat Hasancebi

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; University of the Basque Country - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Date Written: April 19, 2023

Abstract

We show that firms with higher environmental and social (ES) engagement exhibited lower financial reporting quality (FRQ) during the COVID-19 crisis—a pattern not observed in the pre-crisis period. We argue that this decline can be driven by increased complexity and reduced monitoring effectiveness under crisis-induced uncertainty. The result is robust across different ES measures, including ES scores and (social) media sentiment, and holds under both standard and synthetic difference-in-differences approaches. The effect is more pronounced in contexts with greater government intervention via income support and debt relief, policies that may have added to reporting complexity. At the firm level, the decline in FRQ is stronger among firms with weaker governance or management practices—specifically when the CEO pay is not linked to shareholder returns or that of senior executives to sustainability objectives, and with lower strategic or institutional ownership. We identify potential channels for the decline in FRQ, such as increased variation in depreciation and amortization expenses, intangible assets, R&D spending, inventories, and labor costs during the crisis.

Keywords: environmental, social, governance, ESG, financial reporting quality, crisis

JEL Classification: M14, M41, G18, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Epure, Mircea and Hasancebi, Serhat, The Opaque Scorecard: Environmental, Social and Financial Information during a Crisis (April 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4423702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4423702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
D Arkhangelsky , S Athey , D A Hirshberg , G W Imbens , S Wager
Synthetic difference-in-differences
American Economic Review , volume 111 , issue 12 , p. 4088 - 4118 Posted: 2021
V Asriyan , L Laeven , A Martín
Collateral booms and information depletion
Review of Economic Studies , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 517 - 555 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
RANK
373,551
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies