Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Political Risk and the Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

40 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Hui L. James

University of Texas at Tyler

Hongxia Wang

Coastal Carolina University

Nilakshi Borah

University of Wisconsin - La Crosse - College of Business Administration

Date Written: 04 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of firm-level political risk on cash flow sensitivity of cash. Using a large sample of US firms from 2003 to 2018, we find that the cash flow sensitivity of cash decreases in political uncertainty and the impact of political risk is asymmetric to cash flow types (positive vs negative). Intensified political uncertainty induces positive/negative cash flow firms to reduce savings out of cash flows to finance investment opportunities/terminate unprofitable projects to retrieve cash. The results are robust to various model specifications, alternative variable definitions, and the control for non-political risks. In addition, we show that a firm’s financial status moderates the relation between the two, with financially constrained positive/negative cash flow firms saving more out of cash flows/decreasing existing savings as political risk increases.

Keywords: Firm-level political risk; Cash flow sensitivity of cash; Positive (negative) cash flow firms; Financial constraints

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G39

Suggested Citation:

James, Hui L. and Wang, Hongxia and Borah, Nilakshi, Firm-Level Political Risk and the Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash (04 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4424402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
RANK
495,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies