Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Political Risk and the Manipulative Characteristics of Earnings Management

68 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Hui L. James

University of Texas at Tyler

Jurica Susnjara

Texas State University

Thanh Ngo

East Carolina University

Date Written: April 20, 2023

Abstract

Prior research suggests that risk and uncertainty in general, and country-wide political risk in particular, motivate managers to engage in earnings management. Using the text-based proxy for managers’ perception of political risk developed by Hassan et al. (2019), as well as principal components analysis of earnings management (Christensen et al., 2021, 2022) to better capture manipulative conduct, we find that firm-level political risk is significantly positively associated with earnings manipulation using both accruals and real activities, and does so beyond the effect of macro-political risk and other determinants of earnings management from prior research. The results are robust to alternative proxies for political risk and earnings management, various techniques addressing endogeneity concerns, and subsamples of firms with different earnings management incentives. Moreover, we find that the negative relation between earnings management and subsequent operating performance, the very association that justifies referring to earnings management activities as “manipulation,” is more pronounced in firms exposed to more political risk. Collectively, these results suggest that managers are more motivated to manipulate earnings under firm-level political pressure to mitigate the perceived earnings volatility to external investors, and that these political-risk-induced earnings management activities appear to be detrimental.

Keywords: Political risk, Real earnings management, Accrual-based earnings management, Operating performance

JEL Classification: M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

James, Hui L. and Susnjara, Jurica and Ngo, Thanh, Firm-Level Political Risk and the Manipulative Characteristics of Earnings Management (April 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4424670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
420,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies