Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Euphoria and Corporate Disclosures: An Investigation of CEO Partisan Alignment With the President of the United States

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 75, No. 2-3, 2023

Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Mehmet Kara

University of Kansas School of Business Accounting Academic Area

Mazhar Arikan

University of Kansas, School of Business

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Yaoyi Xi

San Diego State University

Date Written: April 2023

Abstract

We examine how the partisan alignment between chief executive officers (CEOs) and the United States president influences corporate disclosure outcomes. We predict and find evidence that more partisan-aligned CEOs display greater optimism in their corporate disclosures. CEO partisan alignment is positively associated with the likelihood of issuing a management earnings forecast and issuing overly optimistic forecasts. More partisan-aligned CEOs also use a more optimistic tone in the corporate disclosure and exhibit a lower level of accounting conservatism. Our findings suggest that time-varying beliefs of CEOs formed by the political environment can shape corporate disclosures.

Keywords: Partisan alignment, Political ideology, Corporate disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Kara, Mehmet and Arikan, Mazhar and Masli, Adi and Xi, Yaoyi, Political Euphoria and Corporate Disclosures: An Investigation of CEO Partisan Alignment With the President of the United States (April 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 75, No. 2-3, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424721
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies