Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and the Riskiness of Trade Credit

60 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Hui L. James

University of Texas at Tyler

Date Written: April 6, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates how social capital, defined by the strength of civic norms and the density of social networks, affects firms’ trade credit risk. The results show that social capital is negatively related to accounts receivables that are unlikely to be collected, suggesting social capital can mitigate collectability risk. Furthermore, this negative effect is stronger in firms suffering financial inflexibility but weaker in firms offering executives more risk-taking incentives. Conversely, the negative effect of social capital is not conditional on corporate governance quality. The mediation analysis shows that reducing trade credit risk is an important channel through which social capital attenuates overall firm risk. Taken together, these results support the notion that social capital, an important environmental factor surrounding corporate headquarters, motivates managers to avoid risky conduct and lower trade credit risk.

Keywords: Social capital, Civic norms, Riskiness of trade credit, Firm risk

JEL Classification: D7, D25, G30

Suggested Citation:

James, Hui L., Social Capital and the Riskiness of Trade Credit (April 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4424586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
596,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies