Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Media’s Role in Market Reactions to Securities Class Action Filings 

51 Pages Posted: 14 May 2023 Last revised: 1 Mar 2025

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Antonis Kartapanis

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: April 22, 2023

Abstract

It is unclear how investors quickly incorporate the complex news from securities class action filings into prices based on frictions that could impede obtaining and interpreting the information in these filings. The media has expertise that may assist this reaction. We find media coverage is significantly associated with short-term market reactions, even before filings are publicly available. Notably, we find economically significant market reactions only for litigation with media coverage. We also find an immediate reaction to articles about litigation using intraday stock prices. Results are driven by the media reducing investor integration costs by producing understandable, detailed case information. Thus, the media is critical for investors to quickly impound litigation news into stock prices.

Keywords: Market Reaction, Securities Litigation, Securities Class Action, Investor Processing Costs, Market Participants, Media

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, K22, K40, L82, M40

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Kartapanis, Antonis and Yust, Christopher, The Media’s Role in Market Reactions to Securities Class Action Filings  (April 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4426290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
D Apa
Common law right of public access-The Third Circuit limits its expansive approach to the common-law right of public access to judicial records
Villanova Law Review , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 981 - 1003 Posted: 1994
M Arena , B Julio
The effects of securities class action litigation on corporate liquidity and investment policy
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue 1-2 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2015
A B Badawi
How informative is the text of securities complaints
Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 801 - 827 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
325,744
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies