Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Firms Voluntarily Disclosing Emissions Greener?

39 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2023 Last revised: 1 Dec 2024

Yilin Shi

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Christopher S. Tang

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Jing Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: December 8, 2023

Abstract

Do firms voluntarily disclosing emissions have lower levels of greenhouse gases in their in-house and outsourced operations? We examine this question using Scope 1 and upstream Scope 3 emission data reported by firms or estimated by S\&P Trucost from 2002 to 2020. Our empirical results reveal that "voluntary disclosing firms'' tend to have lower levels of "internal emissions'' (i.e., Scope 1 emissions) and yet higher levels of "external emissions" from upstream suppliers (i.e., estimated upstream Scope 3 emissions). Overall, disclosing firms tend to have more emissions in the entire supply chain. A plausible explanation is that they may outsource more emissions to upstream suppliers than non-disclosing firms. By exploring the potential mechanisms that explain our results, we find that disclosing firms tend to exert more effort to reduce their internal emissions and outsource more carbon-intensive operations to suppliers. This finding is consistent with their decreasing Scope 1 emissions and increasing Scope 3 emissions. In addition to examining differences in emissions between high- and low-emission industries and across regions, we also investigate the implications of mandatory environmental reporting regulations by different governments and find these regulations can effectively nudge disclosing firms to reduce total emissions, including Scope 1 and Scope 3. As more regulations require the disclosure of Scope 3 emissions, our findings highlight the necessity for firms to develop processes and exert efforts to measure, monitor, and control both in-house and outsourced emissions. Additionally, our findings indicate that ESG investment managers should perform due diligence rather than solely relying on firms that disclose their Scope 1 emissions.

Keywords: carbon disclosure, carbon emissions, regulations, supply chains

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Yilin and Tang, Christopher S. and Wu, Jing, Are Firms Voluntarily Disclosing Emissions Greener? (December 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4426612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,161
RANK
31,885
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies