Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deceived by ‘S’: Corporate Scandals and ESG

38 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2023

Christina Kjaer

Center for Corporate Governance

Tom Kirchmaier

London School of Economics - Centre for Economic Performance

Date Written: April 25, 2023

Abstract

In this paper we study the impact of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings on the likelihood of subsequent corporate scandals. We find that the ‘S’ score (social responsibility) has a predictive power on scandals, while the overall ESG ratings has not. This finding holds for all our specifications. The underlying question that we want to address with this paper is whether the ESG rating agencies are able to establish ratings that reflect firms’ real efforts to act responsibly towards the society, or whether the ratings may contribute to deceiving the audience. Our work contributes to the ongoing ‘aggregate confusion’ discussion amongst ESG scholars, showing that there is little informational content in an aggregate score (as it measures very diverse dimensions). Contrary to our expectation, the ‘S’ score is positively correlated with the likelihood of corporate scandals, suggesting that the ‘S’ score does not live up to measuring a company’s social responsibility, including the ‘commitment to being a good corporate citizen’ (Refinitiv, 2022). Our analysis is based on a hand-collected matched sample of 113 global corporate scandals.

Keywords: Corporate scandals, ESG rating agencies, ESG ratings, corporate misconduct, corporate social performance, corporate governance, impression management.

JEL Classification: I11; I12; I14; I15

Suggested Citation:

Kjaer, Christina and Kirchmaier, Tom, Deceived by ‘S’: Corporate Scandals and ESG (April 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4428468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4428468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Z Amir , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
B E Ashforth , V Anand
the Normalization of Corruption in Organizations
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2003
R Barkemeyer , C Faugère , O Gergaud , L Preuss
Media attention to large-scale corporate scandals: Hype and boredom in the age of social media
Journal of Business Research , volume 109 , p. 385 - 398 Posted: 2018
F Berg , J K&ouml;Lbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
SSRN Electronic Journal - 42 Posted: 2022
Load more
4 Citations
Hard Lessons in Corporate Governance
, p. 258 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Timo Busch , Lisa Scheitza , Tobias Bauckloh , Christian Klein
Does Shareholder Signaling Matter for Corporate Strategy? A Study of ESG- and Carbon-Related Proposals
Organization & Environment , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 378 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Hard Lessons in Corporate Governance
, p. 233 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jesper Sørensen
Shorting Fraud
, p. 35 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
118,026
4 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies