Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023 Last revised: 6 May 2024

Daphne M. Armstrong

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: April 25, 2023

Abstract

We use textual analysis of mandatory accounting filings to develop firm-level, time-varying measures of exposure to individual government agencies including the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) and Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The measures vary predictably across industries and with agency-specific events such as the Sarbanes Oxley Act at the SEC and budget cuts at the IRS. The measures positively relate to undisclosed agency investigations and financial statement downloads. Firms’ total exposure across government agencies negatively relates to their profitability, consistent with exposure to government agencies imposing net costs. Consistent with a causal interpretation of these results, the positive stock market reaction to the surprise election of Donald Trump, who promised to reduce the power of government agencies, positively varies with firms’ exposure to government agencies. As initial applications of our measures, we demonstrate that expanded SEC oversight increases firms’ stock liquidity and reduced IRS oversight decreases firms’ effective tax rates.

Keywords: Government agencies, disclosure, corporate profitability, corporate regulation, SOX, liquidity, IRS, tax planning

JEL Classification: D82, D83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Daphne and Glaeser, Stephen and Hoopes, Jeffrey L., Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies (April 25, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4428258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4428258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D M Armstrong
Measuring Tax Enforcement with Generative AI. SSRN Scholarly Paper Posted: 2023
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser
Does Tax Complexity Discourage Entrepreneurship Posted: 2023
J Bae , C Yu Hung , L Van Lent
Mobilizing Text As Data
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 1085 - 1106 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,581
RANK
68,413
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies