Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Financial Reporting Quality in Vietnamese Stocks Exchange

Advance Knowledge for Executives, 2(2), No. 21, 1-13. May 2023

13 Pages Posted: 5 May 2023

Trinh Thi Lien

Ho Chi Minh City Industry and Trade College (HITC)

Hoang Thi Hien

Ho Chi Minh City Industry and Trade College (HITC)

Mai Trang Nguyễn Phạm

Ho Chi Minh City Industry and Trade College (HITC)

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

Objective: The objective of this research is to examine the connection between the efficiency of the audit committee and the quality of audits on the accuracy of financial reports.

Method: The study collected data from annual reports and financial statements of listed companies across three industries on the Vietnamese Stock Exchange between 2015 and 2020. The data was analyzed using a Panel Fixed Effects Model.

Result: The findings indicate that the audit committee's effectiveness has a significant positive correlation with the quality of financial reporting. When the audit committee's size increased, the financial reporting quality improved. However, the study discovered that a decrease in financial reporting quality could occur due to discretionary accruals. Furthermore, audit quality was found to have a significant positive relationship with financial reporting quality, as evidenced by an unqualified audit opinion.

Conclusion and Recommendation: It could be concluded that financial reporting adheres to accepted accounting standards. Additionally, the size of the board of directors, financial risk, return on assets, and growth were all positively linked to financial reporting quality, as management is encouraged to perform well, thereby enhancing trust among investors and shareholders.

Keywords: audit committee, audit quality, financial reporting, Vietnam

Suggested Citation:

Thi Lien, Trinh and Hien, Hoang Thi and Nguyễn Phạm, Mai Trang, Audit Committee Effectiveness and Financial Reporting Quality in Vietnamese Stocks Exchange (May 1, 2023). Advance Knowledge for Executives, 2(2), No. 21, 1-13. May 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4428958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,645
RANK
118,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies