Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: A New Conceptual Framework in an Era of Economic Globalization

Ohio State Business Law Journal, Vol. 18, I. 1, Fall 2023

17 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: April 25, 2023

Abstract

While only several decades ago, the idea of corporate social responsibility was not trivial, it seems that most scholars today understand that corporations owe special commitments to their stakeholders which go beyond common regulatory and conventional requirements in promoting the community in which it operates. However, while “translating” such a notion to real life and prioritizing these commitments among the corporation’s stakeholders in a corporation that operates domestically is not self-explanatory, translating it in the cross-border context is even more challenging.
This paper attempts to take the notion of CSR a step forward and as global commercial relationships bring our world closer into a global village, and to question “who is thy neighbor?” and in our context “who is thy stakeholder?” and proposes a new conceptual framework in how tax revenues should be allocated among countries in which multi-national corporations operate in an era of globalization. This issue was less relevant fifty years ago when most economic relations were within the boundaries the boundaries of their locality or domestic state we now live in an era of economic globalization and the time has come to update the CSR framework accordingly.
This paper is divided into five parts. Part I, provides the background to the theory of “Corporate Social Responsibility” and the exposure corporations currently have to foreign markets. Part II provides a concise overview of what we believe are the most significant milestones in the development of the social responsibility theory. Part III provides an overview of the linkage between corporate social responsibility and taxation. Part IV attempts to make the case for the expansion of social responsibility beyond the scope of domestic activities, shows the importance of cross-border social responsibility in general, and demonstrates how cross-border social responsibility is applied in the context of taxation. Finally, part V connects the dots between all the statements and arguments made in this paper and proposes a new conceptual framework that should be applicable to Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) in eliminating strategic tax behavior and in allocating MNC’s corporate tax revenues among the countries in which they operate in a fair manner.

Keywords: CSR, Corporate Social Responsibility, Tax, International Tax, Corporate Tax, Tax Policy, ESG

JEL Classification: K1, K2, K10, K20, K34, O1, O2, O20, O38,

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Shanan, Tamir, Cross-Border Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: A New Conceptual Framework in an Era of Economic Globalization (April 25, 2023). Ohio State Business Law Journal, Vol. 18, I. 1, Fall 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4429065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4429065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Taxation, Corporate Social Responsibility, and the Business Enterprise Posted: 2009
Id
, volume 13
Michael Peregrine , & Charles Elson , Harv L F Sch , Corp
Twenty Years Later: The Lasting Lessons of Enron
GOVERNANCE Posted: 2021-05
Peter Witt , Behr
Enron's Other Strategy: Taxes, WASH. POST Posted: 2002-05-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
259,334
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies