Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Mutual Fund Voting on Executive Compensation Shareholder Proposals

Forthcoming, Journal of Management Accounting Research

Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Mary Margaret Frank

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Zhe (Michael) Guo

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Luann J. Lynch

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Date Written: April 26, 2023

Abstract

We investigate how mutual funds with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) objectives vote on shareholder proposals related to executive compensation. Using a sample of 94,695 votes by 2,354 mutual funds from 2012 to 2021, we find that ESG funds are 9.4% more likely than non-ESG funds to vote in favor of such proposals, and the likelihood increases to 19.2% for proposals aligning executive compensation with environmental and social (ES) objectives. ESG funds are also 14.9% more likely to support proposals to improve transparency, but only 7.0% more likely to support proposals about redesigning compensation. Our results are consistent with ESG funds perceiving greater net benefits from supporting shareholder compensation proposals, particularly those related to ES objectives and transparency. Additionally, funds committed to ESG objectives in regulatory filings are more likely to support such proposals than fund families that voluntarily signed the United Nations’ Principles of Responsible Investment.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, Mutual funds, Sustainability, Shareholder proposals, Proxy voting, Executive compensation

JEL Classification: G23, G30, M12, M14

Suggested Citation:

Dikolli, Shane and Frank, Mary Margaret and Guo, Zhe (Michael) and Lynch, Luann J., ESG Mutual Fund Voting on Executive Compensation Shareholder Proposals (April 26, 2023). Forthcoming, Journal of Management Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4429692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
687
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies