Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Political Risks: The Role of Firm Political Alignment

56 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 5 Oct 2023

Ping Jiang

University of International Business and Economics

Jing Li

Simon Fraser University

Minjia Li

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Jenny Li Zhang

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine the determinants and consequences of an important but understudied strategy in managing political risks—firm political alignment (FPA). Using a GPT large language model, we measure FPA as the extent to which firms align their actions and commitments with government agendas as presented in annual reports. Leveraging two political events in China, we find that: 1) as the anti-corruption campaign that started in 2012 and later spread across different provinces serves as a staggered shock that reduces the effectiveness of political ties, firms increase their FPA in response; 2) the extent of FPA largely mitigates the negative market reaction around the announcement of the common prosperity policy in 2021 which heightens policy uncertainty for non-state-owned firms. Overall, our findings provide novel evidence that firms engage in FPA to manage political risk.

Keywords: political alignment, political cost hypothesis; policy risk; common prosperity policy; anti-corruption campaign

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M40, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Ping and Li, Jing and Li, Minjia and Zhang, Jenny Li, Navigating Political Risks: The Role of Firm Political Alignment (September 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4430507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4430507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Bloomberg
Chinese firms rush to embrace 'common prosperity' slogan Posted: 2021-09-01
M Boland , D Godsell
Local soldier fatalities and war profiteers: New tests of the political cost hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
RANK
192,754
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies