Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value of Mobile Labor During Immobile Times

Posted: 4 May 2023

Weishi Jia

Independent

Shuo Li

Western Washington University - Department of Accounting; Western Washington University

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Eliza Xia Zhang

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Date Written: April 27, 2023

Abstract

We examine the influence of mobile employees on a firm’s resilience to its COVID exposure. We find that, during the first two quarters of 2020, firms with more mobile labor experienced less negative stock returns and lower declines in operating profit and operating efficiency in response to their COVID exposure. These results suggest mobile employees increase firm resilience to COVID exposure. There are two mechanisms through which mobile employees enhance firm resilience: (1) mobile employees can be more easily redeployed to perform alternative work within the firm due to their broad expertise, and (2) they can better adapt to the new environment due to their diverse experience. Our evidence highlights the value of mobile employees during the immobile times of the pandemic, and it has implications for regulators and practitioners seeking ways for firms to enhance resilience and improve human capital disclosure.

Keywords: Labor mobility; COVID exposure; Firm resilience; Stock returns

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Weishi and Li, Shuo and Li, Shuo and Stocken, Phillip C. and Zhang, Eliza Xia, Value of Mobile Labor During Immobile Times (April 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431031
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies