Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Auditors Respond to Clients' Rollover Risk?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Forthcoming

Posted: 1 May 2023

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Myungsoo Son

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

HakJoon Song

California State University, Dominguez Hills

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether and how auditors incorporate rollover risk in assessing a client’s risk. Rollover risk is the risk associated with long-term debt maturing in one year, which has to be refinanced of settled shortly. Debt has two counteracting effects on firms’ riskiness: increased liquidity risk and increased monitoring. The finance literature suggests that rollover risk is an apparent risk factor because it results in high liquidity risk but only a weak (or limited) monitoring benefit. Consistent with that literature, we show that auditors increase audit fees, exhibit a higher likelihood of issuing a going concern opinion, and terminate relations with their clients more frequently as rollover risk increases. Our study is the first in the audit research literature to document that auditors factor rollover risk in their pricing, going concern, and client portfolio decisions.

Keywords: Rollover risk, Audit Fee, Going Concern, Auditor Resignation

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Son, Myungsoo and Song, HakJoon, How Do Auditors Respond to Clients' Rollover Risk? (August 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431160
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies