Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers' Equity Incentives and Asymmetric Cost Behavior

Journal of Management Accounting Research (2022) 34 (2): 43–69.

Posted: 1 May 2023

Eric R. Brisker

The University of Akron

Jong Chool Park

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

HakJoon Song

California State University, Dominguez Hills

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Recent research documents the phenomenon of sticky cost behavior where costs change asymmetrically between an increase and a decrease in sales and attributes this behavior to managers’ deliberate decisions. In this paper, we test the relationship between sticky cost behavior and equity incentives. We find that a measure of the sensitivity of managerial wealth to stock price (delta) is positively related to sticky costs where costs increase more quickly in response to a sales increase than they decline in response to a sales decrease. Conversely, we find that a measure of the sensitivity of managerial wealth to stock volatility (vega) is positively related to antisticky costs where costs increase to a lesser extent in response to a sales increase than they decline in response to a sales decrease. These results indicate the importance that equity incentives have on managerial resource adjustment decisions in response to changes in firm activity levels

Keywords: executive compensation; equity incentives; asymmetric cost behavior

JEL Classification: G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Brisker, Eric R. and Park, Jong Chool and Song, HakJoon, Managers' Equity Incentives and Asymmetric Cost Behavior (June 1, 2022). Journal of Management Accounting Research (2022) 34 (2): 43–69., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431146
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
416
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies