Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Blockchain Technology on Firm Performance through Supply Chain Parameters and Barriers in Its Adoption

32 Pages Posted: 11 May 2023

Aqsa Younus

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this research paper is to explain how supply chain adaptability, alignment, and agility are improved by the adoption of blockchain technology that positively affects firm performance. Whereas it has been analyzed that in Pakistan there is resistance in the adoption of blockchain technology due to technological, organizational, and environmental barriers. The conceptual model of this research study has been established by conducting an extensive literature review on Supply Chain Agility, Supply Chain Adaptability, Supply Chain Alignment, Blockchain Technology, and barriers in its adoption. The conceptual framework has been validated by 318 sample data that were collected through supply chain professionals from different industries in Pakistan. The measurement model has been analyzed to check the reliability and validity of the measures used and the structural model has to test the proposed conceptual model. The results of this study illustrate that Blockchain Technology adoption improves supply chain adaptability, alignment, and agility which positively impacts on firm performance whereas some organizational, technological, and environmental barriers are present which creates resistance to blockchain technology. Supply chain strategies are different for different industries but in this study, it has been assumed that all supply chains are identical. The study indicates that supply chain practitioners are assured that blockchain technology will help to improve supply chain parameters which result in better firm performance. The effect of Blockchain technology on important supply chain parameters has been studied in the past but this study also shows the barriers that organizations and individuals are facing in its adoption.

Keywords: Blockchain Technology, Firm Performance, Supply Chain Management, Supply Chain Adaptability, Supply Chain Alignment, Supply Chain Agility, Resistance to Blockchain Technology

Suggested Citation:

Younus, Aqsa and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Impact of Blockchain Technology on Firm Performance through Supply Chain Parameters and Barriers in Its Adoption (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4431966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
219,707
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies