Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Earnings Quality on the Zombie Firm Efficiency: Evidence from Japan

18 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Takehide Ishiguro

Okayama University

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: To examine whether higher earnings quality reduces zombie firms’ overinvestment.

Design/methodology/approach: This study examines whether the excessive investment behavior of zombie firms can be reduced by high earnings quality, based on data from Japanese firms listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), using the ordinary least square regression (OLS) method.

Findings: The results indicate that zombie firms disclosing high earnings quality reduce excessive investment compared with their counterparts with low earnings quality. Furthermore, we find that Japanese foreign shareholders seeking high-quality earnings information affect the efficiency of zombie firms.

Originality: While previous studies verify that high earnings quality reduces overinvestment in normal firms, this study expands the scope of the analysis by including zombie firms. Furthermore, this study examines whether earnings quality affects the decision-making of foreign shareholders, who are expected to solve the zombie firm problem, but are characterized by the need to rely on publicly available information about the firm in the Japanese economic environment.

Keywords: Zombie firm, Efficiency for zombie firm, Agency problem, Accounting quality, Stakeholder-oriented corporate governance, Shareholder-oriented corporate governance, Japan

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ishiguro, Takehide, Effect of Earnings Quality on the Zombie Firm Efficiency: Evidence from Japan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4431446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
V V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Whatever it takes: the real effects of unconventional monetary policy
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 9 , p. 3366 - 3411 Posted: 2019
M Aoki
Toward an economic model of the Japanese firm
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1990
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
556,453
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies