Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Group Affiliation, Corporate Governance, Block Holding, and Related Party Transactions affects Financial Performance in Pakistan

75 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Anas Iftikhar

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

Like other emerging and developing economies of the world, business groups dominate the Pakistani economic landscape. The political economy of the country makes it easier for business groups to take bold business decisions in uncertain and inconsistent policy regimes. By incorporating new subsidiaries and affiliates, business groups are better able to fetch new business opportunities as they arise. A firm’s affiliation to a well-reputed group reduces the perceived risk of banks, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders and enables it to avail of better and cheaper goods, services, and facilities. It even gets better access to credit when individual companies struggle in distress and a sluggish economy. Even though group-affiliated companies are generally operationally efficient, these firms face unique conflicts within their boards i.e. directors from controlling business groups face a dilemma to uphold the parent group’s interest at the expense of the firm’s long-term interests. This includes making such firms to be a cash cows for their parents by paying unsustainably high dividends, investing in riskier group endeavors by increasing debt in their capital structures, passing better business opportunities to other group firms, etc. In many cases, they involve in unfair practices like transfer pricing to tunnel their resources to groups’ other flagship companies. This study tries to determine how group affiliation benefits these firms in the presence of such principal-principal conflicts. This research tracked the financial performance of Pakistani firms for the six years from 2014 to 2019 in light of corporate governance measures, the presence of strategic block shareholding, capital structure, and related party transactions. The sample is composed of KSE-100 share index companies in the manufacturing and non-financial service sectors of the Pakistan Stock Exchange. Factor scores were generated to moderate the relationship between financial performance and group affiliation in MLA regression. The research concludes that group affiliation significantly adds to the ROE. Sound corporate governance structures, block holding, and leverage greatly enhance the group affiliation’s positive effect on ROE. In light of its findings, the study proposes the definition and characteristics of good group governance. In the end, the study put forward its recommendations to regulators, investors, and future scholars to watch for the best corporate and group governance practices.

Keywords: Business Groups, Group Governance, Corporate Governance, Block-holding, tunneling, RPT, Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Iftikhar, Anas and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, How Group Affiliation, Corporate Governance, Block Holding, and Related Party Transactions affects Financial Performance in Pakistan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies