Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Links between Corporate Governance Mechanism, Accounting Conservatism, and Stock Price Crash Risk under the Complementary Role of IFRS Adoption in Pakistan

30 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

AON WAQAS BALOCH

Independent

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

Our research aims to investigate the theoretical and empirical links between corporate governance mechanisms, accounting conservatism, and stock price crash risk under IFRS adoption in Pakistan through separate and combined analyses. For this research, 155 nonfinancial firms listed in PSX during 2007-2019 are considered. An index through PCA is constructed for the corporate governance mechanism. IFRS is a dummy variable. Accounting conservatism is measured by C-Score. Crash risk is measured through the DUVOL of stock prices. Our research finds a significant negative link between corporate governance mechanisms and IFRS. This research finds a significant negative link between the corporate governance mechanism and accounting conservatism. This research finds that the governance mechanism of firms has an insignificant role in the minimization of crash risk. Furthermore, C-Score has a significant negative link with the DUVOL of stock prices. More specifically, our research finds a significant combined link between IFRS and corporate governance mechanism that encourages the in-time anticipation of the news. This research finds that there is an insignificant combined link between corporate governance mechanism and IFRS adoption to minimize the crash risk. Our research additionally finds a significant link between IFRS and accounting conservatism to minimize the stock price crash risk. Further, our research discourages the hiding of news for inside trading by the management just because of the conflict of interest. This research encourages the fair disclosure of information to all concerned stakeholders of the firms. This research is significant for the concerned regulators, management, and investors who belong to emerging economies including Pakistan. Our research has a significant role to motivate non-adopter countries to adopt the IFRS for the transparency of the financial records.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Mechanism, Principle Component Analysis (PCA), Down-to-Up Volatility (DUVOL), Stock Price Crash Risk, Accounting Conservatism, IFRS Adoption, Agency Issues, Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

BALOCH, AON WAQAS and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Exploring the Links between Corporate Governance Mechanism, Accounting Conservatism, and Stock Price Crash Risk under the Complementary Role of IFRS Adoption in Pakistan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
350,629
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies