Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Link between Integrated Reporting and a Company's Value and the Kind of Disclosure in Pakistan

25 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Yasmeen Arbani

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

Objective: The goal of this study is to observe the integrated reporting (IR) disclosure pattern and examine how it relates to a company's worth as measured by its yearly average prices. The study also aims to determine the relationship between integrated reporting and companies’ intrinsic value as reflected by their Price to Earnings ratio in this paper, considerably under the type of disclosure routine in Pakistan.
Methodology: This study is quantitative and is based on Ordinary Least Square(OLS) regression analysis of 50 companies listed at the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSE) in various distinct nonfinancial industries for five fiscal years, from 2017–2021, using 250 firm-year observations. The level of disclosure in corporate annual reports is assessed manually using a standardized integrated reporting disclosure index (IRDIN). The dependent variable for this research model is IRDIN and the independent variable is the firm’s Price.
Findings - The empirical findings suggest that the IRDIN is strongly and positively correlated with the considered value measure i.e. Firm’s price. The analysis also revealed that there is an inverse relationship between the organization’s disclosure index and PE ratio. Content analysis reveals a tendency of increased disclosure quality out of the built-in index components by the sample companies.
Research restrictions/consequences: A limited sample size could make it difficult to demonstrate the research findings in the proposed disclosure system. It may have an impact on the self-constructed IRDIN index ratings.
Practical Implications: Given that the results demonstrate a favorable correlation between companies’ value and the acquisition of this ground-breaking landscape in corporate reporting, capital market authorities can learn important lessons about the viability of implementing IR in Pakistan.
Originality/Value - This is a novel attempt to measure and analyze IR through data collected from the nonfinancial industries of Pakistan.

Keywords: Organization’s value, Integrated reporting disclosure regime, Disclosure regime in Pakistan, Organizational performance, IIRC

Suggested Citation:

Arbani, Yasmeen and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Examining the Link between Integrated Reporting and a Company's Value and the Kind of Disclosure in Pakistan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
713,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies