Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intragroup Transactions, Corporate Governance, and Corporate Philanthropy in Pakistani Business Groups

37 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Malik Khizar Mubarak

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

The idea of corporate philanthropy states that businesses should be willing to engage in socially beneficial endeavors. It has been acknowledged that commercial organizations may create economic value by cooperating with businesses within the same group and pooling resources inside. If the related companies engage with external markets and provide stakeholders a value for the choice, corporate philanthropy will be more associated with corporate governance if it prioritizes CSR. Asian business groups are "suspected of making big announcements and setting up a philanthropic foundation to acquire the government's favor gifts, such as lessened limitations and financial subsidies." It's important to understand why certain organizations donate more to charity than others since Asian businesses have different views on corporate philanthropy. This study examines the impact of intra-group purchases and intra-group sales on corporate philanthropy, with the function of foreign investor ownership and ownership director acting as a moderator. We gather the secondary data for the intended study from the annual reports of firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange. we examine how corporate philanthropy is related to intra-group sales and purchases, with the function of outside director representation and foreign investor ownership acting as moderators. The data of the top 50 businesses listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange from 2016 to 2020 (5 years) was gathered. The results suggested that advertising intensity (ADI), business group debt (BGDR), business group size (BGS), intra-group purchases (IP), intra-group transactions (IS), family business group (FGB), firm age (FA), business group performance (BGP) seems to exert a positive and significant influence on corporate Philanthropy (CP), whereas, outside director (OD), cash holdings (CASH) and foreign investor ownership (FIO) exert a negative effect in some models, while remaining insignificant in others. The effect of several affiliated firms (AF), shareholders ownership (FSO), and intra-group sales (INS) remained inconclusive. The interaction effect of FIO in the IP-CP and IS-CP nexus seems to the negative and significant, whereas, OD positively complements the IP-CP nexus. The findings imply that business group dynamics and their intra-group transactions are contributing towards corporate Philanthropy. However, foreign ownership not only seems to negatively influence CP, furthermore, it also reduces the effect of IP, and IS on CP in interaction models. On the contrary outside directors seems to have positive complementarities in the IP-CP nexus. When making choices, connected groups must take CSR into account and the firm should prioritize corporate philanthropy when doing intragroup transactions.

Keywords: Corporate Philanthropy, Corporate Governance, Intragroup Transactions, Pakistan, Corporate governance, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Mubarak, Malik Khizar and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Intragroup Transactions, Corporate Governance, and Corporate Philanthropy in Pakistani Business Groups (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
RANK
864,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies