Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unpacking Director Financial Literacy: A Delphi Study from Australia

16 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Jackie Bettington

Queensland University of Technology

Pieter-Jan Bezemer

Queensland University of Technology - School of Management

Gavin J. Nicholson

Queensland University of Technology - QUT Business School

Date Written: December 2014

Abstract

The ‘Centro case’ confirmed that each individual director is responsible for financial governance and must be able to ‘read and understand’ financial statements. Despite the centrality of director financial literacy to directors duties, practitioner and academic literature have failed to clearly define or provide evidence-based reliable measures of director financial literacy. This paper seeks to address this weakness by presenting the initial results of a Delphi study on unpacking the conceptualisation of director financial literacy. We have found that director financial literacy involves more than reading and understanding financial statements. Rather, it encompasses capabilities in applying accounting concepts to the analysis and evaluation of financial statements. As such director financial literacy may be more accurately described as ‘director accounting literacy’.

Keywords: Accountability, Agency theory, Board composition, Board effectiveness, Board of directors, Board roles, Corporate Governance, Financial literacy

JEL Classification: M19, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bettington, Jackie and Bezemer, Pieter-Jan and Nicholson, Gavin J., Unpacking Director Financial Literacy: A Delphi Study from Australia (December 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies