Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Credit, and Liquidity Risk, along with Capital Adequacy and Audit Quality on Bank's Financial Stability: a Comparative Study between Islamic and Conventional Banks of Pakistan

37 Pages Posted: 15 May 2023

Muhammad Anas Jameel

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

This paper aims to investigate how credit risk, liquidity risk, capital adequacy ratio, and audit quality affect a bank's stability both separately and in combination, and then compare the resulting banking stability between Islamic and commercial banks in Pakistan, while also taking into account the phenomenal growth of Islamic banking and its potential future effects. The results show that there are no economically significant reciprocal momentary or time-lag associations between the capital adequacy ratio and audit quality, not with credit risk or liquidity risk, nor between these two risk categories. Additionally, each risk category along with CAR and audit quality has an impact individually on banking stability. Furthermore, the results suggested that CAR, loan asset, and ROA seems to have a significant and positive effect on banks' stability. Whereas, liquidity GAP seems to have a negative impact. In addition, Islamic banks' stability also seems to be positively affected by Liquidity risk, audit quality, and inflation, whereas bank size seems to positively impact conventional banks' stability. In Addition, conventional banks seem to be negatively impacted by ROE, and credit risk. For Islamic banks, Liquidity risk, audit quality, and inflation seem to have a significant and positive effect on banks' stability. Moreover, there seems to be positive complementarity between credit, liquidity risk, audit quality, and CAR in explaining stability for conventional banks, On the contrary, complementarities are negative in the case of Islamic banks. We discovered that the four factors — two risks, CAR, and audit quality — when taken collectively had a significant impact on banking stability. We also conclude that, in comparison to Pakistan's conventional banks, Islamic banks are more stable and less likely to go bankrupt due to these risk factors.

Keywords: Credit risk, Liquidity risk, Capital adequacy, Audit quality, Banking stability, Islamic banks, Pakistan.

Suggested Citation:

Jameel, Muhammad Anas and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Effect of Credit, and Liquidity Risk, along with Capital Adequacy and Audit Quality on Bank's Financial Stability: a Comparative Study between Islamic and Conventional Banks of Pakistan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
267,591
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies