Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalism and Society: Do MNCs have different Ethical Standards in different Countries: A Global Content Analysis of Private Social Initiatives

49 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Sara Zaidi

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

The dismissal of capitalist illusions of our century has cleared the intellectual stage for social care and the creation of sustainable practices. Multinational Companies (MNCs) are the mainstream representative of a capitalist economy and the Transnational Capital Class (TCC), the TCC is the one who gets the most benefits from it. However, regardless of their benefits and wealth accumulation, they can be seen as unconscious of the massive degradation in terms of social and environmental domains of society. These MNCs utilized their competitive advantage in getting cheap labor and natural resources from low-income societies; however, they largely failed to give back to society. Most of them do engage in CSR initiatives but these are largely motivated by local regulations and governance institutions rather than feeling to give back to the unprivileged. Therefore, CSR initiatives taken by MNCs are more influenced by government and institutions, rather than their universal policies and philanthropic mission statements for giving back to society. This paper shed light on the classical critique of capitalism. Premised on this philosophical debate, this study aims to provide empirical evidence of dual ethical standards of world-leading seven MNCs that conduct business operations across the globe. Using content analysis tools, we investigated these MNCs' CSR performance across 50 countries. We analyze CSR disclosure practices by constructing a disclosure Index. The results predicted that there are significant disparities that exist between MNCs' ethical considerations in doing business in headquarters and host countries. This study also reveals that Macroeconomic and Institutional Governance are the main factors influencing these disparities.

Keywords: Capitalism, Social Capital, Institutions, Economic Well-being, Governance, Multinational Companies, Disparity, Corporate Social Responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability, Volunteer Reporting, Website Disclosure, Content Analysis, ESG Index, Social Initiatives, Ethical Standards,

Suggested Citation:

Zaidi, Sara and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Capitalism and Society: Do MNCs have different Ethical Standards in different Countries: A Global Content Analysis of Private Social Initiatives (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
534,717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies