Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Corporate Governance Affect Tax Aggressiveness? Evidence from Finland

Forthcoming in Nordic Journal of Business

27 Pages Posted: 4 May 2023

Vijay Burman

University of Eastern Finland

Mervi Niskanen

University of Eastern Finland

Markus Mättö

University of Eastern Finland - Department of Business

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

Using data from Finnish private firms, we examine the association between corporate governance and tax aggression in a high tax alignment environment. We find evidence of a non-linear relationship between CEO ownership and tax aggressiveness. Our results indicate that organisations with low levels of CEO ownership are more tax aggressive than those with high levels of CEO ownership when comparing firms with an average degree of CEO ownership. Furthermore, firms with CEO duality are less tax aggressive. This study provides a new perspective on effective corporate governance by suggesting that effective corporate governance systems in private firms lead to more tax aggressiveness. This could be attributed to the fact that cash flow, including tax savings, is critical to survival for private firms, and not even board diversity or CEO gender diminish this effect.

Keywords: Tax aggressiveness, corporate governance, a private firm, SMEs, ownership structure, taxation

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Burman, Vijay and Niskanen, Mervi and Mättö, Markus and Ojala, Hannu, How Does Corporate Governance Affect Tax Aggressiveness? Evidence from Finland (April 30, 2023). Forthcoming in Nordic Journal of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4433568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
229,982
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies