Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividends and Share Repurchases during the COVID‐19 Economic Crisis

Mazur, M., Dang, M., & Vo, T. T. A. (2023). Dividends and share repurchases during the COVID‐19 economic crisis. Journal of Financial Research,1–24. https://doi.org/10.1111/jfir.12324

24 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Mieszko Mazur

ESSCA school of management

Man Dang

Danang University of Economics

Thi Thuy Anh Vo

University of Economics - University of Da Nang

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

In this article, we examine dividends and share repurchases of S&P 1500 firms during the COVID-19 crisis characterized by the stock market crash and a relatively quick stock price recovery propelled by technology stocks. We find that the great majority of firms either maintain or increase the level of dividends during the crisis period. Yet, the relation between the dividend payout and reported earnings is negative and significant. This relation also holds for other types of payouts, including share repurchases and special dividends. Moreover, we find that both forecasted and realized earnings of up to 1 year into the future are negatively associated with current dividends, implying that existing payout policies are unsustainable in the longer term. Surprisingly, the difference-in-differences test shows that firms strongly affected by the COVID-19 crisis have higher dividend payouts (relative to net earnings) compared to unaffected firms. The same test indicates that strongly affected firms significantly reduce repurchases.

Keywords: Dividend, Share-repurchases, Special dividend, Dividend policy, Economic shock, COVID-19, Crisis

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Mazur, Mieszko and Dang, Man and Vo, Thi Thuy Anh, Dividends and Share Repurchases during the COVID‐19 Economic Crisis (May 1, 2023). Mazur, M., Dang, M., & Vo, T. T. A. (2023). Dividends and share repurchases during the COVID‐19 economic crisis. Journal of Financial Research,1–24. https://doi.org/10.1111/jfir.12324, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
RANK
517,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies