Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) on Pay Fraud in the Budget Office of the Federation Nigeria

Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series on Public Policy, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2022

Posted: 5 May 2023

Zakari Musa

National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN)

Date Written: September 29, 2022

Abstract

This study examined the effect of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) on payroll fraud in the budget office of the federation. The study adopted survey research design. Questionnaire was used to generate primary data. Chi-square statistical analysis was used to analysis the data. Finding from the study shows that the computerized accounting system of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) has facilitated human resources planning thereby preventing payroll fraud in the Budget office of the Federation. The study also revealed that, the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) has blocked loopholes in the manipulation of personnel records in the Budget Office of the Federation. The study therefore conclude that Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) has reduced payroll fraud in the budget office of the federation. The study recommends that, the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System should be used to facilitate effective human resource planning through appropriate salary administration system, speedy electronic payment, and accurate feature so as to minimize the problem of payroll fraud. The Implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System should be designed in such a way that, officers in-charge of enrolment would not aid or help employees to alter their records.

Keywords: Integrated payroll and personnel information system (IPPIS), fraud detection, accountability and transparency

Suggested Citation:

Musa, Zakari, Effect of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) on Pay Fraud in the Budget Office of the Federation Nigeria (September 29, 2022). Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series on Public Policy, Vol. 11, No. 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433157
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
912
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies