Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time Matters Less: Variance Partitioning of Return on Equity for Banks in Uganda
Heliyon

32 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023 Publication Status: Published

Boonlert Jitmaneeroj

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

John Ogwang

Lira University - Department of Commerce and Business Management

Abstract

This paper contributes to the literature on banks’ return on equity (ROE) by decomposing variability in banks’ ROE at the time level and the bank level. Using a new approach of hierarchical linear modelling for Uganda’s banks over the period of 2010 to 2020, we find that the 'between bank' variance is greater than the 'within bank' variance. In other words, banks are more responsible for their own performance while the time-driven shocks and time-trend matter less for the banks’ ROE variability. Given unstable and declining ROE for banks in Uganda, our findings suggest important issues which may call for urgent managerial attention and policy responses from supervisory authorities. Interestingly, the downward trend in ROE of Uganda’s banks can be reversed if banks improve their operational efficiency (i.e., profit margin and asset turnover), coupled with appropriate investment decisions (i.e., equity multiplier).

Keywords: DuPont analysis, Hierarchical linear modelling, Return on equity, Variance partitioning, banks

Suggested Citation:

Jitmaneeroj, Boonlert and Ogwang, John, Time Matters Less: Variance Partitioning of Return on Equity for Banks in Uganda. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4435163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4435163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies