Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank liquid assets, the portfolio motive, and capital requirements

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2023-03-009

Charles A Dice Working Paper No. 2023-9

65 Pages Posted: 5 May 2023 Last revised: 2 Dec 2024

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Alvaro G. Taboada

Mississippi State University

Mathijs A. van Dijk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Date Written: March 4, 2024

Abstract

Banks hold large amounts of liquid assets. These amounts grow sharply for the largest banks after the global financial crisis (GFC). The standard transaction and precautionary motives for holding liquid assets cannot explain the size and evolution of bank liquid asset holdings. Motivated by the deposit view of banks, we introduce a portfolio motive such that banks hold more liquid assets when they have poorer lending opportunities, making loans and liquid assets substitutes. We find support for the portfolio motive and for its prediction that capital requirement increases help explain the post-GFC growth in the largest banks’ liquid asset holdings.

Keywords: banks, liquid assets, reserves, loans, LCR, capital requirements

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Stulz, Rene M. and Taboada, Alvaro G. and van Dijk, Mathijs A., Bank liquid assets, the portfolio motive, and capital requirements

(March 4, 2024). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2023-03-009, Charles A Dice Working Paper No. 2023-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4438592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4438592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Viral V Acharya , Raghuram Rajan
Liquidity, liquidity everywhere, not a drop to use: Why flooding banks with central bank reserves may not expand liquidity Posted: 2023
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello , Igor Cunha , Michael S Weisbach
Corporate liquidity management: A conceptual framework and survey
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 6 , p. 135 - 162 Posted: 2014
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello , Michael S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,692
RANK
116,972
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies