Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Military Experience and Subsequent Effectiveness as a Director

51 Pages Posted: 19 May 2023

Xianda Liu

University of Edinburgh, Business School

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Brian G. M. Main

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: May 5, 2023

Abstract

Military training promotes leadership skills and emphasizes a unique value system encompassing integrity, duty, selflessness and self-discipline. We hypothesize that directors with military experience encourage timely disclosure of firm-specific information, which leads to higher stock-price informativeness. Based on a sample of listed firms in 56 countries over the period 1999-2016, we document that having a military director on board is positively related to stock price non-synchronicity, informed trading and shorter price response delay. Exploiting exogenous variations in the likelihood of having military directors that arise as a result of variations in the military talent pool we confirm the causal inference of these results. Taken together, the findings suggest that directors with experience of military service shape the organizational ethical climate and influences the monitoring function of the boards on which they serve. Wars and economic sanctions have an unremittingly negative connotation. They do however, invariable enhance military institutions and increase the number of people with military experience. This paper demonstrates that the experience and training gained during time in the military can result in an improved talent pool – in this case, directors of firms. Policy makers would be wise not to overlook this, perhaps unexpected, feature in a post-conflict economy.

Keywords: D82, G14, G34

JEL Classification: War; Military experience; Corporate governance; Stock price informativeness

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xianda and Hou, Wenxuan and Main, Brian G. M., Military Experience and Subsequent Effectiveness as a Director (May 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4439516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4439516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
495,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies