Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reinsurance and Sustainability: Evidence From International Insurers

Journal of Applied Finance and Banking, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 May 2023 Last revised: 17 Jul 2023

Silvia Bressan

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Date Written: July 17, 2023

Abstract

Reinsurance is an integral transaction to the insurance business and carries real economic consequences. While the previous literature on risk management has examined the effects from reinsurance, in more recent years there is a growing interest on the topic of sustainability and its consequences on corporate risk taking. In this article we analyze a sample of international insurers between 2013 and 2022, and show that the purchase of reinsurance is negatively related to their sustainability, as measured by environmental, social, and governance (ESG) scores. Furthermore, we illustrate that insurers' losses decrease with higher levels of reinsurance and sustainability. However, while reinsurance brings down insurers' profitability, sound ESG scores are related to lower expenses and increasing profitability. Our interpretation is that strong ESG profiles may serve as a cheaper alternative to reinsurance for the mitigation of claim risk. These findings confirm previous views that sustainability impacts financing costs and valuation.

Keywords: ESG, reinsurance, sustainability

JEL Classification: G22

Suggested Citation:

Bressan, Silvia, Reinsurance and Sustainability: Evidence From International Insurers (July 17, 2023). Journal of Applied Finance and Banking, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4440281
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies