Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Country Risk Impact the Banking Sectors’ Non-Performing Loans? Evidence from BRICS Emerging Economies

Saliba et al. Financial Innovation (2023) 9:86

30 Pages Posted: 19 May 2023

Chafic Bassam Saliba

Lebanese International University - School of Business

Panteha Farmanesh

Girne American University

Seyed Alireza Athari

Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK); European University of Lefke

Date Written: May 7, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to fill the gap in the literature by specifically investigating the impact of country risk on the credit risk of the banking sectors operating in Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa (BRICS), emerging countries. More specifically, we explore whether the country-specific risks, namely financial, economic, and political risks significantly impact the BRICS banking sectors’ non-performing loans and also probe which risk has the most outstanding effect on credit risk. To do so, we perform panel data analysis using the quantile estimation approach covering the period 2004–2020. The empirical results reveal that the country risk significantly leads to increasing the banking sector’s credit risk and this effect is prominent in the banking sector of countries with a higher degree of non-performing loans (Q.25 = − 0.105, Q.50 = − 0.131, Q.75 = − 0.153, Q.95 = − 0.175). Furthermore, the results underscore that an emerging country’s political, economic, and financial instabilities are strongly associated with increasing the banking sector’s credit risk and a rise in political risk in particular has the most positive prominent impact on the banking sector of countries with a higher degree of non-performing loans (Q.25 = − 0.122, Q.50 = − 0.141, Q.75 = − 0.163, Q.95 = − 0.172). Moreover, the results suggest that, in addition to the banking sector-specific determinants, credit risk is significantly impacted by the financial market development, lending interest rate, and global risk. The results are robust and have significant policy suggestions for many policymakers, bank executives, researchers, and analysts.

Keywords: Credit risk, Country risk, BRICS, Emerging markets, Banking sector, Political risk, Quantile regression

Suggested Citation:

Saliba, Chafic Bassam and Farmanesh, Panteha and Athari, Seyed Alireza, Does Country Risk Impact the Banking Sectors’ Non-Performing Loans? Evidence from BRICS Emerging Economies (May 7, 2023). Saliba et al. Financial Innovation (2023) 9:86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4440241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
699
RANK
697,608
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies