Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Syariah Governance and Disclosure Islamic Corporate Social Responsibility: A Comparative Study of Indonesian and Malaysian Islamic Banking

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.2 (2023)

10 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023

Lailah Fujianti

Pancasila University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Nelyumna .

Pancasila University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Shahida Shahimi

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia

Sonya Kristina Natalia

Pancasila University - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 8, 2023

Abstract

The existence of the Sharia Supervisory Board in the Sharia banking GCG structure is a unique feature that distinguishes it from the GCG structure of conventional banks. The inconsistency of the results of previous research related to the relationship between GCG and CSR disclosure is the motivation of this study, in addition to the differences in the progress of Indonesian and Malaysian Islamic banks. The research population of Islamic banking is listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and the Malaysia Stock Exchange. Research period on 2016 – 2019 before covid 19 pandemic. The research sample was determined based on purposive sampling, 12 Islamic banks in Indonesia and 14 Islamic banks in Malaysia was selected. The method of analysis is multi group using Partial Least Squares. The results of this study provide empirical evidence that the Sharia Supervisory Board, Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors have not succeeded in playing a role in increasing I-CSR disclosure except for the Independent Board of Commissioners and Independent Board of Directors. The results of the study also have not shown any differences in the influence of GCG on I-CSR in Indonesian and Malaysian Islamic banking.

Keywords: Syariah Supervisory Board, Syariah Governance, Disclosure, Islamic, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Fujianti, Lailah and ., Nelyumna and Shahimi, Shahida and Natalia, Sonya Kristina, Syariah Governance and Disclosure Islamic Corporate Social Responsibility: A Comparative Study of Indonesian and Malaysian Islamic Banking (May 8, 2023). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.6 No.2 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4441373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
RANK
429,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies