Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Renewable Asset Price Volatility and Its Implications for Decarbonization

56 Pages Posted: 10 May 2023 Last revised: 13 May 2025

Harrison G. Hong

Columbia University, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Jeffrey D. Kubik

Syracuse University - Department of Economics

Edward P. Shore

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Banking and Finance

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

We find that the price volatility of renewable assets is significantly greater than that of brown assets. Our causal estimates leverage the response of electricity and credit markets to US state-level renewable portfolio standards that require some utilities to use renewables while exempting others. This extra risk is related to more volatile electricity prices and revenues, consistent with uncertainties including renewables intermittency. Using a growth model where the share of green capital balances climate damages and diversification benefits, we find that greater green-asset volatility is a more important determinant of economy-wide decarbonization than productivity differences of green versus brown capital.

Keywords: Climate policy, renewable portfolio standards, cost of capital, global warming, Transition risk, inflation, yield spreads, leverage, liqudity

JEL Classification: Q20, Q40, Q50, G30, H23

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Harrison G. and Kubik, Jeffrey D. and Shore, Edward P., Renewable Asset Price Volatility and Its Implications for Decarbonization (September 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4441621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4441621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
V V Acharya , R Berner , R Engle , H Jung , J Stroebel , X Zeng , Y Zhao
Climate stress testing
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 291 - 326 Posted: 2023
J Andrade , R Baldick
Estimation of transmission costs for new generation Posted: 2017
R Bansal , A Yaron
Risks for the long run: A potential resolution of asset pricing puzzles
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1481 - 1509 Posted: 2004
G Barbose
US renewables portfolio standards: 2017 annual status report Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,359
RANK
106,324
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies