Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Structure and Employee Safety and Health

59 Pages Posted: 22 May 2023 Last revised: 2 Dec 2024

Lixiong Guo

University of Mississippi

Zhiyan Wang

Wingate University

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

Many countries have imposed minimum independence requirements for corporate boards, yet the implications of board independence for non-shareholder stakeholders remain underexplored. This study examines the effects of a regulatory reform in the U.S., which increased board and board committee independence in public firms, on employee safety and health. We find that establishments belonging to firms compelled to increase board and audit committee independence experienced significant reductions in workplace injury and illness rates, as well as fewer safety violations. The effects were concentrated in establishments of firms with substantial ownership by long-term or employee-friendly institutional investors, suggesting that independent directors improve safety mainly when major shareholders support the change. The observed improvements occurred through two primary mechanisms: increased investments in safety measures and a higher likelihood of linking CEO compensation to safety performance. Our findings suggest that the combination of board independence and ownership by long-term or socially responsible investors can effectively enhance corporate social performance. 

Keywords: Board Independence, Audit Committee Independence, Workplace Safety, ESG, Agency Problems

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G39, J28, J81

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Lixiong and Wang, Zhiyan, Board Structure and Employee Safety and Health (November 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4442446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4442446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Renée B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Benjamin Balsmeier , Lee Fleming , Gustavo Manso
Independent Boards and Innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , issue 3 , p. 536 - 557 Posted: 2017
Florian Berg , Julian F Kölbel , Roberto Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 Posted: 2022
Marianne Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Enjoying the Quiet Life? Corporate Governance and Managerial Preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
312,896
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies