Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Loses Most When Big Banks Suddenly Fail? – Evidence from Silicon Valley Bank Collapse

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 59, No. 104806

22 Pages Posted: 10 May 2023 Last revised: 2 Jan 2024

Xia (Summer) Liu

University of Richmond

William L. Megginson

University of Oklahoma

Nhu Tran

University of Richmond

Siqi Wei

David Nazarian College of Business and Economics, California State University, Northridge

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

We analyze the market reaction of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB)’s public clients to the collapse of SVB. We identify 137 SVB depositors which mention SVB in their 8-K filings from March 10 to March 13, 2023, and 251 SVB borrowers which mention SVB as their lender in any of their 10-K filings from 2021 to 2022. For the depositors, we document an average of -5.12% single-day abnormal return (AR) on the event date (March 10, 2023), and a -12.38% cumulative abnormal return (CAR) over a 30-day post-event window. More surprisingly, the borrowers also experience a similar AR (-4.16%) on the event day and an even worse CAR over the 30-day window (-13.47%). The majority of SVB public clients are from the Healthcare and Pharmaceutical industry, with their headquarters primarily located in California or Massachusetts. In the regression framework, we find that SVB clients are more likely to have worse CARs if they are smaller, with higher cash holdings, or with lower market-to-book ratios. These results indicate that the borrowers appear to suffer more than the depositors from the bank failure. Our findings highlight the importance of commercial banking and financial system stability to small and medium-sized companies, which are the backbone of the high-tech economy.

Keywords: Silicon Valley Bank, Commercial Banking, Event Study

JEL Classification: G21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xia and Megginson, William L. and Tran, Nhu and Wei, Siqi, Who Loses Most When Big Banks Suddenly Fail? – Evidence from Silicon Valley Bank Collapse (October 31, 2023). Finance Research Letters, Vol. 59, No. 104806, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4443827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D Y Aharon , S Ali , M Naved
Too big to fail: the aftermath of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) collapse and its impact on financial markets Posted: 2023
M Akhtaruzzaman , S Boubaker , J W Goodell
Did the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank catalyze financial contagion?
Finance Research Letters , volume 56 Posted: 2023
S Ali , F Moussa , M Youssef
Connectedness between cryptocurrencies using high-frequency data: A novel insight from the Silicon Valley Banks collapse
Finance Research Letters , volume 58 Posted: 2023
W Azmi , Z Anwer , S N Azmi , H Nobanee
How did major global asset classes respond to Silicon Valley Bank failure?
Finance Research Letters , volume 56 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
269,796
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies