Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Silence is Not Always Golden: The Effect of Private Benefits of Control on Voluntary Disclosure

Posted: 11 May 2023

Sheng-Syan Chen

National Taiwan University

Chia-Wei Huang

National Chengchi University

Date Written: May 3, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of managerial private benefits on voluntary disclosure practices (proxied by management earnings forecasts). To establish causality, we exploit the exogenous variation in private benefits following the 2003 Tax Reform Act and conduct a two-stage least squares regression using corruption index and dual-class structure as the instrumental variables. The results of the endogeneity tests support a negative causal effect of managerial private benefits on voluntary disclosure. Furthermore, the results support that private benefits encourage managers to withhold bad news and that reductions in voluntary disclosure are significantly larger in firms that face strong monitoring and competition pressures.

Keywords: agency problems, private control benefits, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, D82, G30, H24

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Sheng-Syan and Huang, Chia-Wei, Silence is Not Always Golden: The Effect of Private Benefits of Control on Voluntary Disclosure (May 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4443313
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
289
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies