Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Correspondence between Methodology and Theory: A Case Study of Accounting for the Environment in Organisational Research

Abeysekera, I. 2023.Correspondence between Methodology and Theory: A Case Study of Accounting for the Environment in Organisational Research. Environmental Research Communications, Vol. 5, No. 5, 055005. https://doi.org 10.1088/2515-7620/acd0f5

50 Pages Posted: 22 May 2023

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

The two most widely investigated environmental domains concerning firms are environmental disclosure and environmental performance. This study examines how well operational variables inform constructs in these two domains. The empirical research process has two aspects: truth making and truth building. Truth making using operational variables must align with truth building with respect to constructs. Towards this aim, this article explores two research questions. First, are disclosure and performance operationally and conceptually different? Second, do the operationalised and conceptualised variables have a strong association in each domain—disclosure and performance? This study uses research data matrices available from a published journal article as an example to demonstrate analytical details. It uses the canonical correlation analysis research method for analysing matrix data to answer the research questions. The findings show that disclosure and performance are conceptually different domains. However, results show that operational variables associate differently with the construct. The findings show that selecting variables in empirical settings that reflect constructs can correspond with theoretical advancements.

Keywords: canonical correlation analysis, construct, environment, environmental disclosure, environmental performance, methodology, theory

JEL Classification: M49, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Correspondence between Methodology and Theory: A Case Study of Accounting for the Environment in Organisational Research ( 2023). Abeysekera, I. 2023.Correspondence between Methodology and Theory: A Case Study of Accounting for the Environment in Organisational Research. Environmental Research Communications, Vol. 5, No. 5, 055005. https://doi.org 10.1088/2515-7620/acd0f5 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4443906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Abbass , M Z Qasim , H Song
A review of the global climate change impacts, adaptation, and sustainable mitigation measures
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 29 , p. 42539 - 42559 Posted: 2022
Abdul Rahman , R Alsayegh , M
F 2021 Determinants of corporate environment, social and governance (ESG) reporting among
Asian Firms Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14
I Abeysekera
Secondary analysis of two environmental practice studies. Do empirical variables represent expressed theoretical constructs?
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 15 Posted: 2014
I Abeysekera , F Li , Lu Y
Financial disclosure quality and sustainability disclosure quality
A case in China PLoS ONE 16 e0250884 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies