Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Tax Incentives on Effective Tax Rates and Cash Holdings in Brazilian Non-Financial Companies Listed on B3

31 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Luzimara Finck Gabler

FUCAPE Business School

Henrique Formigoni

FEA-USP

Luis Paulo Santos

FEA-USP

Date Written: May 10, 2023

Abstract

This study examined the moderating effect of tax incentives on the relationship between effective tax rates and cash holdings of Brazilian non-financial institutions listed on the B3 stock exchange from 2017 to 2021. Using a panel linear regression model with a fixed effect and a statistical moderation model, the findings reveal that a lower total tax burden on value added (TTVA), as a proxy for the effective tax rate for all taxes, is associated with higher cash accumulation. However, when tax incentives are introduced as the moderator, the correlation between TTVA and cash holdings becomes positive. This supports the notion that a moderator variable can influence the direction and strength of the relationship between independent and dependent variables. The groundbreaking nature of this research in the accounting field makes it a valuable contribution to the literature, benefiting various users of accounting information, such as the government, researchers, and investors. Overall, this study sheds light on the impact of tax incentives on the cash holdings of Brazilian non-financial institutions listed on the B3 stock exchange, providing insights that have implications for tax planning, tax incentives, and the cash levels of firms.

Keywords: Cash holdings, tax incentives, tax aggressiveness, tax planning, moderating effect.

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Gabler, Luzimara and Formigoni, Henrique and Santos, Luis Paulo, The Moderating Effect of Tax Incentives on Effective Tax Rates and Cash Holdings in Brazilian Non-Financial Companies Listed on B3 (May 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4444176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4444176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Assaf Neto , A
Estruturas e Análise de Balanços -Um Enfoque Econômico-financeiro Posted: 2020
Assaf Neto , A
Valuation -Métricas de Valor e Avaliação de Empresas Posted: 2021
V F D O Chiachio , A L Martinez
Efeitos do modelo de Fleuriet e índices de liquidez na agressividade tributária
Revista de Administração Contemporânea , volume 23 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2019
CPC 07 (R1) Subvenção e assistência governamentais Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
RANK
609,870
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies