Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Authority Monitoring and Equity Pricing: A Revision to Prior Inferences

59 Pages Posted: 13 May 2023

Patrick Hopkins

Texas Christian University

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 11, 2023

Abstract

We re-examine the role of tax authority monitoring in equity pricing. Prior research documents a negative association between IRS audit probability and the cost of equity capital. In contrast, when using improved IRS audit probability data and two firm-specific proxies for tax authority monitoring, we find that the association between tax authority monitoring and the cost of equity capital is positive. When we reconcile our results to prior literature, we find that a non-linear association between firm size and the cost of equity potentially accounts for these contradictory conclusions. Our results imply that, on average, the possible negative consequences of tax authority monitoring (e.g., increased tax cash outflows) outweigh the potential value-enhancing consequences of tax authority monitoring (e.g., reduced managerial rent extraction). Consistent with this interpretation, our results are stronger among firms with the opportunity to engage in international transfer pricing, a potentially lucrative but highly scrutinized form of tax avoidance. Finally, we find some evidence suggesting investors positively value tax authority monitoring in the absence of other external monitors.

Keywords: tax authority monitoring, equity pricing, cost of capital, external monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick and Lusch, Stephen J. and Stekelberg, James, Tax Authority Monitoring and Equity Pricing: A Revision to Prior Inferences (May 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4445462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4445462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
359,199
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies