Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Benchmarking Country-by-Country Reports

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 122

41 Pages Posted: 15 May 2023

Giulia Aliprandi

EU Tax Observatory

Gerrit von Zedlitz

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: May 10, 2023

Abstract

Country-by-Country Reports (CbCRs) have emerged as a unique public source of information to track the country-by-country activities of multinational corporations. However, concerns about double counting and comparability have raised questions about the reliability of these reports for economic analyses. In this paper, we conduct a benchmark analysis focusing on publicly available CbCRs to assess the reliability of CbCR information compared to respective consolidated financial information. Our findings suggest only limited double counting issues. Most CbCR information matches well with the consolidated information, with only a few exceptions. Nonetheless, we document differences in the definition of variables and in the scope of the reports that may complicate comparisons across multinational corporations. We subsequently discuss the implications of our findings for the use of CbCRs as a source of information in economic analyses. In addition, we provide recommendations for improving the reliability and comparability of CbCR information.

Keywords: Country-by-Country Reporting, Tax Transparency, Double Counting, Geographic Reporting

JEL Classification: H25, H32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Aliprandi, Giulia and von Zedlitz, Gerrit, Benchmarking Country-by-Country Reports (May 10, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 122, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4445272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4445272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
J Adams , E Demers , K Klassen
Tax aggressive behavior and voluntary tax disclosure: Evidence from corporate sustainability reporting
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
G Aliprandi , K Borders
Tax transparency by multinationals: Trends in country-by-country reports public disclosure Posted: 2023
G Aliprandi , K Borders , F Gabriel , G Zedlitz
Public country-bycountry reports: a new database Posted: 2023
R Balakrishnan , T Harris , P Sen
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Load more
2 Citations
Sarah Godar , Giulia Aliprandi , Tommaso Faccio , Petr Janský , Katia Toledo Ruiz
The long way to tax transparency: lessons from the early publishers of country-by-country reports
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 593 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Felix Hugger , Ana Cinta Gonzalez Cabral , Pierce O’Reilly
Effective tax rates of MNEs and the global distribution of low-taxed profit
International Tax and Public Finance Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
RANK
259,334
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies