Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Financial Policies and Corporate ESG Reporting ‘Greenwashing’: Empirical Evidence from Chinese Listed Companies

9 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Zhen Yu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiuling Li

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Lang Yu

Hubei University of Economics

Abstract

In recent years, the phenomenon of ‘greenwashing’ of corporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) reports has been on the rise, seriously interfering with normal capital investment behaviour. This paper explores the relationship between investor concerns and the ‘greenwashing’ of corporate ESG reports, using Chinese A-share listed companies from 2014 to 2021 as a sample. The results show that green finance policies significantly contribute to the ‘greenwashing’ of ESG reports of heavily polluting companies. Under the pressure of green finance policies, heavily polluting companies have more incentives to ‘greenwash’ their ESG reports to relieve financing pressure. This paper’s findings suggest that green finance policies that promote enterprises’ green transformation may negatively induce enterprises to make false ESG disclosures.

Keywords: Green Finance, ESG reporting, greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Zhen and Li, Xiuling and Yu, Lang, Green Financial Policies and Corporate ESG Reporting ‘Greenwashing’: Empirical Evidence from Chinese Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4446265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4446265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
RANK
307,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies