Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preempting Distress Spillovers along the Supply Chain: Evidence from Precautionary Savings

47 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Shuran Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 3, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores whether corporate cash holdings respond to changes in supply chain partners’ distress risk. Firms increase cash holdings when their principal customers have a larger fraction of long-term debt maturing over the next year. Analysis exploiting predetermined differences in fiscal year ends reveals that firms accumulate cash after observing customers’ debt maturity structures and before the refinancing uncertainty is resolved. The effect is concentrated in firms that are financially constrained or highly susceptible to customer distress. During the 2007 financial crisis, cash holdings prevented performance deterioration for firms whose customers had more debt prescheduled to mature. The market valuation of an incremental dollar of cash holdings increases with customers’ maturing debt. Overall, the evidence highlights that firms’ precautionary behavior is shaped by the incentives to preempt distress spillovers from supply chain partners.

Keywords: cash holdings; risk management; customer–supplier relationships; distress spillovers; long-term debt maturity structures

JEL Classification: G32, G30, L14

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Shuran, Preempting Distress Spillovers along the Supply Chain: Evidence from Precautionary Savings (January 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4448657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4448657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
L Alfaro , M García-Santana , E Moral-Benito
On the direct and indirect real effects of credit supply shocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , p. 895 - 921 Posted: 2021
D M Alldredge , D C Cicero
Attentive insider trading
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2015
H Almeida , M Campello , B Laranjeira , S Weisbenner
Corporate debt maturity and the real effects of the 2007 credit crisis
Critical Finance Review , volume 1 , p. 3 - 58 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
750
RANK
658,366
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies