Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Corporate Life Cycle: A Study of Indian Companies

Managerial Finance (Forthcoming)

40 Pages Posted: 16 May 2023 Last revised: 17 May 2023

Ravinder Singh

Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi

Chandra Prakash Gupta

Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi

Pankaj Chaudhary

Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi

Date Written: May 16, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between dividend policy and the life cycle of firms in India. In addition, this study intends to examine the variation in dividend behaviour over the life cycle of a firm. The study anticipates that a firm's dividend behaviour varies over its life cycle.

Design/methodology/approach: To scrutinize the validity of the proposition, we classify 1968 non-financial industrial firms listed at Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) into growth, mature and stagnant firms over the period 2000–20. Additionally, to check the robustness of the results, we use an array of techniques such as analysis of variance, pooled ordinary least squares, fixed effects models, and random effects models.

Findings: The empirical findings suggest that dividend behaviour varies over a firm's life cycle. Specifically, stagnant firms are paying significantly higher dividends than growth firms. And mature firms are paying significantly higher dividends than growth firms. Our results are consistent after controlling the effects of firm’s size, profitability, leverage, operating risk, systematic risk, and growth opportunities.

Research limitations/implications: The findings are useful for corporate decision makers in establishing an appropriate dividend policy conditional on firms' life cycle stage and for shareholders in making investment decisions.

Originality/value: The relation between dividend policy and firm life cycle has not been examined before in the context of Indian stock market. Thus, our research bridges this gap in the literature.

Keywords: India, Corporate Life Cycle, Dividend Policy, Growth, Mature, Stagnant.

JEL Classification: D22, G30, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Ravinder and Gupta, Chandra Prakash and Chaudhary, Pankaj, Dividend Policy and Corporate Life Cycle: A Study of Indian Companies (May 16, 2023). Managerial Finance (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4449581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
304,916
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies