Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Concept of Information Overload: A Review of Literature From The Field of Accounting And Finance

Proceedings of 13th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI) 2022

13 Pages Posted: 19 May 2023

A.L.V Regina

University of Kelaniya

Amila Munasinghe

University of Kelaniya

Date Written: May 16, 2023

Abstract

Information has evolved to be the key resource in any organization in recent decades. Having access to information from anywhere at any time and within simple steps makes information flow among the users without limitation. This situation gives pressure on users after certain point to make effective decisions. Therefore, the outcome of the decisions worsens if the users witness the intolerable pieces of information. The purpose of this study is to discuss the findings based on information overload and to reveal latent research gaps. Following a systematic literature review, the current study revealed that there is an increasing drift toward research in information overload in the field of accounting and finance for the period from 2017 to 2021. Special emphasis has been found in the area of corporate reporting since corporate reports are the salient tool to connect users with the organization. Discussion about disclosure overload on integrated reporting, internet reporting, sustainability reporting and other volunteer disclosures by previous papers open research agenda for prospective researchers. Addedly this paper modified the previously developed conceptual framework by introducing the limit where information overload starts to occur. Hence the findings will assist preparers, users, and government bodies in regulating disclosure of the corporate reporting.

Keywords: Information overload, Decision-making, Disclosure overload, Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Regina, A. L. V and Munasinghe, Amila, The Concept of Information Overload: A Review of Literature From The Field of Accounting And Finance (May 16, 2023). Proceedings of 13th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI) 2022 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4449786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4449786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,619
RANK
207,451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies