Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abominable Greenhouse Gas Bookkeeping Casts Serious Doubts on Climate Intentions of Oil and Gas Companies

17 Pages Posted: 23 May 2023

Sergio García Vega

SDGLabs.ai

Andreas G. F. Hoepner

Smurfit Graduate Business School, University College Dublin; European Commission - DG FISMA

Joeri Rogelj

International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA)

Frank Schiemann

University of Bamberg

Date Written: March 30, 2023

Abstract

The Paris Agreement aims to reach net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the second half of the 21st century, and the Oil & Gas sector plays a key role in achieving this transition. Understanding progress in emission reductions in the private sector relies on the disclosure of corporate climate-related data, and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is considered a leader in this area. Companies report voluntarily to CDP, providing total emissions and breakdowns into categories. How reliable are these accounts? Here, we show that their reliability is likely very poor. A significant proportion of Oil & Gas companies' emission reports between 2010 and 2019 fail a 'simple summation' mathematical test that identifies if the breakdowns add up to the totals. Companies' reports reflect unbalanced internal bookkeeping in 38.9% of cases, which suggests worryingly low quality standards for data guiding the private sector's contribution to halting climate change.

Keywords: Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Oil & Gas, Carbon Disclosure Project

Suggested Citation:

García Vega, Sergio and Hoepner, Andreas G. F. and Rogelj, Joeri and Schiemann, Frank, Abominable Greenhouse Gas Bookkeeping Casts Serious Doubts on Climate Intentions of Oil and Gas Companies (March 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4451926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4451926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Ipcc
Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis
Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Posted: 2021
S Bouckaert , T Kim , K Mcnamara , B Wanner , K Mcglade , P Olejarnik , Z Adam , L Arboleya Sarazola , Y Arsalane , B Baruah
Posted: 2019
S Dietz , D Gardiner , V Jahn , J Noels
How ambitious are oil and gas companies' climate goals?
Science , volume 374 , issue 6566 , p. 405 - 408 Posted: 2021
F Depoers , T Jeanjean , T Jérôme
Voluntary disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions: Contrasting the carbon disclosure project and corporate reports
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , issue 3 , p. 445 - 461 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,257
RANK
188,511
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies