Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Verification of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Affect Voluntary Disclosure?

52 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Jade Huayu Chen

Loyola Marymount University

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Aditi Khatri

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

Shyam V. Sunder

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether auditor verification of internal controls over financial reporting (i.e., ICFR verification) affects a firm’s likelihood of voluntary disclosure and investor’s perception of firm’s voluntary disclosure decisions. We exploit a recent amendment to Smaller Reporting Company Regulatory Relief and Simplification in 2018, which created a group of firms that are subject to ICFR verification but exempt from mandatory disclosure of certain items in their periodic filings. We find these firms maintain greater disclosure of exempt items compared to firms that are not subject to ICFR verification. Furthermore, a difference-in-differences design reveals that investors view ICFR verification as a substitute for the loss of commitment to disclosure. Finally, we find firms that reduce disclosure in response to the exemption are perceived more negatively in the presence of ICFR verification as compared to firms without ICFR verification, consistent with investors viewing non-disclosure under ICFR verification as strategic. Overall, our results underscore the benefits of ICFR verification in building managers’ and investors’ confidence in the production of financial information.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, loss of commitment, ICFR verification

JEL Classification: M41, M42, D20

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jade and Choudhary, Preeti and Khatri, Aditi and Sunder, Shyam, Does Verification of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Affect Voluntary Disclosure? (May 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4452673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4452673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
472,791
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies