Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind the Curtain of Workforce Diversity: Evidence from EEO-1 Reports

57 Pages Posted: 23 May 2023 Last revised: 4 Sep 2025

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Rachel W. Flam

London Business School

Anthony Le

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: May 23, 2023

Abstract

We leverage the 2023 court-ordered FOIA release of standardized Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) reports to examine the workforce diversity of federal contractors. Using the released data for a sample of over 19,000 publicly traded and private firms, we provide descriptive evidence on the variation in gender and racial diversity of these companies' workforce.  We also document the existence of a racial gap between managers and lower-level employees.  A substantial portion of that gap cannot be explained by industry or geographic factors, reflecting the influence of firm-level characteristics. Then, focusing on a sample of over 800 publicly traded federal contractors, we find robust evidence that the racial managerial gap is associated with firms' decision to withhold the voluntary disclosure of their EEO-1 forms. While our findings are subject to several caveats, we provide important evidence on workforce diversity and highlight the importance of using granular, firm-level data to study diversity topics.

Keywords: EEO Form; Diversity Metrics; Strategic Disclosure

JEL Classification: J15, M14, M51

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Flam, Rachel W. and Le, Anthony, Behind the Curtain of Workforce Diversity: Evidence from EEO-1 Reports (May 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4452298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4452298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
A Augustine , M Frerichs , S Wooden , B Murphy
Letter to the SEC, (Link) Posted: 2021
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory ESG disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2025
A Baker , D Larcker , C Mcclure , D Saraph , E Watts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , p. 1661 - 1709 Posted: 2024
Load more
1 Citations
ANDREW C. BAKER , DAVID F. LARCKER , CHARLES G. McCLURE , DURGESH SARAPH , EDWARD M. WATTS
Diversity Washing
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,104
RANK
43,175
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies