Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Financial Inclusion

Journal of Money and Business, 2023

29 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: May 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the association between corporate governance and financial inclusion in terms of correlation and causation. It examines whether countries that have a strong corporate governance environment also have better financial inclusion outcomes. The indicators of financial inclusion are automated teller machines (ATMs) per 100,000 adults, bank accounts per 1,000 adults and bank branches per 100,000 adults, while the indicators of corporate governance are extent of corporate transparency index, the extent of director liability index, the extent of disclosure index, the extent of ownership and control index, the extent of shareholder rights index, minority investors protection index and ease of shareholder suits index. The data were analyzed using Pearson correlation and granger causality tests. The results indicate that strong corporate governance is significantly correlated with better financial inclusion outcomes. The regional analyses show that corporate governance has a significant positive association with financial inclusion in Asian countries and in Middle East countries. However, a positive and negative association was observed between some indicators of corporate governance and financial inclusion in European countries, North American countries, South American countries, African countries and in Middle East and North Africa countries (MENA) countries, implying that strong corporate governance has a positive and negative association with financial inclusion depending on the indicators of corporate governance and financial inclusion used. There is also evidence of uni-directional granger causality between corporate governance and financial inclusion.

Keywords: financial inclusion, corporate governance, financial institutions

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Corporate Governance and Financial Inclusion (May 2023). Journal of Money and Business, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4453830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4453830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
H S Ali , S H Law , Z Yusop , L Chin
Institutional quality and financial inclusion nexus in developing countries: A dynamic panel GMM estimation analysis Posted: 2016
M Ali , M I Nazir , S H Hashmi , W Ullah
Financial inclusion, institutional quality and financial development: Empirical evidence from OIC countries
The Singapore Economic Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 161 - 188 Posted: 2022
İ Bozkurt , R Karakuş , M Yildiz
Spatial determinants of financial inclusion over time
Journal of International Development , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 1474 - 1504 Posted: 2018
T Eldomiaty , R Hammam , R El Bakry
Institutional determinants of financial inclusion: evidence from world economies
International journal of development issues , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 228 Posted: 2020
Load more
2 Citations
Peterson K Ozili , Olayinka Marte Uadiale , Jude Edeigba
The 2018 Revised Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance: An Academic Response and Lessons for Africa
Addressing Corporate Scandals and Transgressions Through Governance and Social Responsibility, 2023 · 22 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 112
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Peterson K Ozili
Exchange Rate and Financial Inclusion
12 Pages · Posted: 11 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 67
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
584,078
2 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies