Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Use Classification Shifting to Manage Credit Rating? Evidence from the Investment-Speculative Grade Borderline

46 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Sunil Kumar

Roger Williams University

Robert Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: June 30, 2022

Abstract

Credit ratings are important determinants of access to the debt market. We examine whether firms near the investment–speculative borderline use classification shifting to manage their credit ratings. Using the S&P long-term credit ratings, we find that firms in the broad categories of BBB and BB misclassify core expenses as special items to inflate core earnings. We also find that firms facing financial constraints and those with high leverage are more likely to engage in classification shifting. Further, we show that managers rely on classification shifting when they perceive the costs of accrual-based and real activities earnings management to be significant. Governance mechanisms in the form of analyst following, institutional ownership, and audit quality have deterrent effects on the use of classification shifting by rated firms. Finally, firms near the investment–speculative borderline successfully receive a rating upgrade in the near future through classification shifting.

Keywords: Classification shifting, Earnings management, Credit rating, Debt market, Corporate governance.

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Sunil and Kim, Robert and Kim, Sangwan, Do Firms Use Classification Shifting to Manage Credit Rating? Evidence from the Investment-Speculative Grade Borderline (June 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4454577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4454577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , E T Rapley
Earnings management constraints and classification shifting
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5-6 , p. 600 - 626 Posted: 2014
C Alessi , R Wolverson , M A Sergie
The credit rating controversy. Council on Foreign Relations Posted: 2013
E Alfonso , C A Cheng , S Pan
Income classification shifting and mispricing of core earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Posted: 2015
A Ali , W Zhang
Proximity to broad credit rating change and earnings management Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
627
RANK
667,795
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies