Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Patience is Key: The Time it Takes to see Benefits from Continuous Auditing

16 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2023

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Benjamin Fligge

University of Duisburg-Essen

Vanessa Lopez-Kasper

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 21, 2023

Abstract

Despite research showing numerous benefits to continuous auditing, uptake by internal audit functions has been quite slow. Using field data from a multinational company, we study two possible reason for the slow uptake of continuous auditing—the time it takes for continuous auditing to result in measurable reductions in audit risks and that not every type of risk is equally likely to improve from continuous auditing. Results suggest it takes three years before observing significant risk reductions from implementing continuous auditing. We also find that the benefits of implementing continuous auditing vary by risk factor, ranging in improvement from 0 percent to 51.6 percent for each additional year of continuous auditing use. These findings are important for internal auditors to understand to have a realistic expectation of the benefits and their limitations, as well as the timetable for realizing those benefits, when adopting continuous auditing.

Keywords: Continuous Auditing, Key Risk Indicator, internal auditing

JEL Classification: M42, G32

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Fligge, Benjamin and Lopez-Kasper, Vanessa and Wood, David A., Patience is Key: The Time it Takes to see Benefits from Continuous Auditing (May 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4454724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4454724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Feasibility and Economics of Continuous Assurance. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 138 Posted: 2002
D A Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Analytical procedures in external auditing: A comprehensive literature survey and framework for external audit analytics
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 101 Posted: 2018
L Argote , S Lee , J Park
Organizational Learning Processes and Outcomes: Major Findings and Future Research Directions
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 9 , p. 5399 - 5429 Posted: 2021
C E Brown , J A Wong , A A Baldwin
A Review and Analysis of the Existing Research Streams in Continuous Auditing
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
176,084
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies