Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Internal Corporate Governance Mechanism Affect Financial Stability and Risk-Weighted Capital of Banks? Empirical Evidence from Pakistan
Heliyon

21 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2023 Publication Status: Under Review

Naveed Khan

HITEC University Taxila Cantt

Hassan Zada

SZABIST, Islamabad

Wing-Keung Wong

Asia University, Department of Finance

Shakeel Ahmed

HITEC University Taxila Cantt

Abstract

This study examines how internal corporate governance mechanisms affect the financial stability and risk-weighted capital of commercial banks listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange from 2010 to 2021. For the empirics, we use the Random Effect model suggested by the Hausman test.  We find that board meetings, board size, board gender, and board independence are positively and significantly associated with both banks’ financial stability and risk-weighted capital whereas administrative ownership is negatively associated with risk-weighted capital. Moreover, our findings for board independence and administrative ownership are aligned with the agency theory, which states that management holds higher ownership thus to maximizes their interest and personal gains. Audit committee size and meetings were found positive and significantly associated with financial stability and risk-weighted capital. Similarly, CEO duality is positive and significantly related to financial stability and risk-weighted capital. Further, we find that the existence of board independence might decrease the readiness of the CEO to uncover information to the board, which increases the uncertainty in decision-making. The findings of this study are helpful for policymakers in their decision makings and beneficial for bank managers in their management.

Keywords: financial stability, Internal corporate governance, Audit Committee, Pakistan stock exchange

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Naveed and Zada, Hassan and Wong, Wing-Keung and Ahmed, Shakeel, Does Internal Corporate Governance Mechanism Affect Financial Stability and Risk-Weighted Capital of Banks? Empirical Evidence from Pakistan. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4455185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4455185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
R Adams , H Mehran
Corporate performance, board structure and their determinants in the banking industry
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report No. 330 Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Muhammad Imran , Muhammad Kamran Khan , Shabbir Alam , Salman Wahab , Muhammad Tufail , Zhang Jijian
The implications of the ecological footprint and renewable energy usage on the financial stability of South Asian countries
Financial Innovation , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Kinglsey Imandojemu , Segun E. Eniola Otokiti , Ademayowa M. Adebukunola , Romanus Osabohien , Mamdouh Abdulaziz Saleh Al-Faryan
Disruptor or enabler? AI and financial system stability
Journal of Financial Economic Policy Posted: 2025
Crossref
Peter Kandie Kimunei
Corporate governance, firm age and financial stability of microfinance banks in Kenya
African Journal of Empirical Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 649 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
3 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies