Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Versus Domestic Institutional Investors: How They Differ When It Comes to Sustainability Assurance

47 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023

Kholod Alsahali

Jubail Industrial College

Ricardo Malagueño

University of Essex

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: May 22, 2023

Abstract

We examine the extent to which domestic and foreign institutional investors’ holdings are associated with firms’ decisions to assure their sustainability reports and their choice of assurance provider. Using an international sample of 1,927 firms, we provide evidence of the importance of distinguishing between foreign and domestic investors when examining sustainability reporting assurance practices. Results show that domestic investors’ holdings are negatively associated with firms’ decisions to assure their sustainability reports. We find that foreign investors’ holdings are positively associated with the choice of Big-4, while domestic investors’ holdings are positively associated with other assures. Additionally, foreign investors from stakeholder-oriented countries are positively associated with the decision to assure sustainability reports and choose a Big-4 assurer. Contrary, domestic investors from shareholder-oriented countries are negatively associated with the decision to assure sustainability reports and the choice of a Big-4 assurer. Finally, results reveal that holdings from responsible foreign investors have a positive association with the decision to assure sustainability reports, while the holdings of non-signatory foreign investors are negatively associated with the assurance and the choice of Big-4. This paper contributes to the literature on the role of investors in enhancing the reliability of firms’ sustainability reports.

Keywords: assurance, institutional investors, sustainability report, ESG, responsible investment

Suggested Citation:

Alsahali, Kholod and Malagueño, Ricardo and Marques, Ana Cristina, Foreign Versus Domestic Institutional Investors: How They Differ When It Comes to Sustainability Assurance (May 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4455020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4455020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
K Alsahali , R Malagueño
An empirical study of sustainability reporting assurance: current trends and new insights
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 617 - 642 Posted: 2022
K Alsahali , R Malagueño , A C Marques
Board monitoring and companies' choice of sustainability assurance providers
Accounting and Business Research Posted: 2023
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Credibility of sustainability reports: The contribution of audit committees
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 973 - 986 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
723
RANK
472,791
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies