Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Organizational Capital, Brand Capital, and Information Asymmetry

70 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 16 May 2025

Muskan Chawla

UBC Sauder School of Business, Canada.; UBC Sauder School of Business, Canada.

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Jessica Kim-Gina

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Accounting Area

Date Written: May 22, 2023

Abstract

We develop a refined proxy for Organizational Capital (OC*) by separating Brand Capital (BC) from the commonly used SG&A-based measure of OC. We show that OC* and BC represent distinct constructs, with OC* reflecting firm-specific internal capabilities embedded in corporate systems and BC capturing external-facing brand and customer relationships. Validating our measures, we document that OC* is positively associated with goodwill in M&A transactions, while BC correlates with identifiable customer-related intangibles. Furthermore, OC* aligns with management system quality in ESG scores, whereas BC relates to consumer-related ESG metrics, reinforcing their conceptual distinction. Finally, we examine the relationship between these constructs and information asymmetry. We find that OC* is positively associated with insider trading profits and informed trading, while BC shows no such association, suggesting that different types of intangible assets contribute to information asymmetry to varying degrees. Overall, our study offers straightforward measures of intangibles using widely available data and highlights the importance of distinguishing between different components of intangibles in empirical analyses.

Keywords: intangible capital, information asymmetry, knowledge capital, organization capital, insider trading, disclosure, brand capital

Suggested Citation:

Chawla, Muskan and Friedman, Henry L. and Kim-Gina, Jessica,

Organizational Capital, Brand Capital, and Information Asymmetry

(May 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4456404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4456404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
David Aboody , Baruch Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Jay Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Mary E Barth , Ron Kasznik , Maureen F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Gary S Becker
Nobel lecture: The economic way of looking at behavior
Journal of Political Economy , volume 101 , issue 3 , p. 385 - 409 Posted: 1993
Load more
1 Citations
BYEONGCHAN AN , ROBERT BUSHMAN , ANYA KLEYMENOVA , RIMMY E. TOMY
Bank Supervision and Organizational Capital: The Case of Minority Lending
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 505 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
RANK
232,476
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies