Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Decentralized Finance (DeFi) Protocols

59 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Date Written: May 18, 2023

Abstract

The collapse of FTX has underscored the critical importance of auditing, especially in the fast-growing decentralized finance (DeFi) markets. Due to the decentralized nature of DeFi platforms, which facilitate peer-to-peer transactions without intermediaries, and the rapid pace of innovation in the unregulated and highly asymmetric information environment of the DeFi market, traditional financial auditing methods face significant hurdles. This study explores the relevance of auditing in DeFi protocols and highlights its critical role in ensuring transparency, security, and trust within these decentralized systems. Through a comprehensive analysis of the unique characteristics of DeFi, including smart contracts and blockchain technology, we delve into the specific challenges and risks associated with auditing DeFi applications. Furthermore, the article discusses the demand for robust auditing practices, regulatory oversight, and industry standards to enhance resilience and stability in this fast-growing emerging market.

Keywords: DeFi protocols, auditing, smart contracts, blockchain, financial innovation, regulation

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, O16

Suggested Citation:

Rabetti, Daniel, Auditing Decentralized Finance (DeFi) Protocols (May 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4458298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4458298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for bombs: The predictability of on-chain transfers for terrorist attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
D Amiram , E Lyandres , D Rabetti
Cooking the order books: Information manipulation and competition among crypto exchanges Posted: 2022
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
W Blacconiere , M Defond
An investigation of audit opinions and subsequent auditor litigation of publicly-traded failed savings and loans
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 415 - 454 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
717
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,134
RANK
82,030
6 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies