Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Import Competition and Earnings Management

45 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 9 Oct 2023

Erik Lie

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Keyang Daniel Yang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Date Written: May 24, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of product market competition on firms' earnings management practices. Using exogenous variation in import competition, we find that heightened competition reduces real earnings management, whereas accruals management is unaffected. The results suggest that competition and the ensuing financial pressure inflate the costs of deviating from optimal operating decisions. We also show that several measures of competition from past studies are flawed and produce misleading results.

Keywords: Product market competition, Earnings management, Import competition, Accrual-based earnings management, Real earnings management, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: D22, D43, G30, M41, L11

Suggested Citation:

Lie, Erik and Yang, Keyang, Import Competition and Earnings Management (May 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4458435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4458435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Daron Acemoglu , David Autor , David Dorn , Gordon H Hanson , Brendan Price
Import competition and the great US employment sag of the 2000s
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 34 , p. 141 - 198 Posted: 2016
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Ashbaugh-Skaife , Daniel W Hollis , William R Collins , Ryan Kinney , Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
481,162
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies