Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Corporate Governance. An Overview and an Assessment.

39 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2023

Steen Thomsen

Copenhagen Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 25, 2023

Abstract

Sustainable Corporate Governance became a controversial topic after fierce academic and business criticism of an EU policy proposal. However, sustainability is here to stay, and corporate governance will have to deal with it. The relationship between corporate governance and corporate sustainability has, in fact, already become an important topic for board members, shareholders and regulators as well as academics. Many different ideas have been suggested and some have been implemented, although a set of best practices still has to emerge. This paper outlines what could be some of the key elements of sustainable corporate governance 2.0 including company law (director liability), long-term ownership, ESG investment, company purpose, sustainability committees, sustainability competencies, ESG incentives, climate plans, climate risk management, sustainability reporting, and internal carbon pricing. I conclude that the current fixation on regulation and ESG is counterproductive and suggest that a better way forward is to start with company purpose and to adjust corporate governance accordingly. Using this approach, I outline a tentative roadmap for sustainable corporate governance 2.0.

Keywords: sustainability, corporate social responsibility, ownership, incentives, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, L21, L33

Suggested Citation:

Thomsen, Steen, Sustainable Corporate Governance. An Overview and an Assessment. (May 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4459225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4459225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
D Acemoğlu , J A Robinson
Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty Posted: 2012
P Akey , I Appel
The Limits of Limited Liability: Evidence from Industrial Pollution
Journal of Finance Posted: 2017
J Armour , L Enriques , T Wetzer
Green Pills
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
U Atz , T Van Holt , Z Z Liu
Do Corporate Sustainability and Sustainable Finance Generate Better Financial Performance? A Review and Meta-analysis
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,093
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,990
RANK
46,150
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies