Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners’ Role in Material Misstatement Resolution: Survey and Interview Evidence

78 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2023 Last revised: 23 Jun 2023

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Joseph Weber

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

Auditors are expected to identify and resolve material misstatements (MMs) in management’s financial statements. However, beyond the audit opinion, the audit process is opaque. To address this, we independently survey 462 audit partners and interview 24 audit partners, CFOs, and audit committee members on how partners assess and address MM risk, resolve MMs, and the consequences of MMs. Partners identify MMs in approximately 9% (15%) of public (private) engagements and use qualitative factors to waive some MMs. Loan covenant and going-concern issues increase MM risk more than earnings benchmark issues. Partners point to a variety of both auditor and client factors as threats to audit effectiveness. Partners often rely on rapport with management and involve the national office and audit committee in resolving MMs. Partner incentives around restatements are context-specific. Our results provide new insights into the auditor’s role in financial reporting that are relevant to academics, practitioners, and regulators.

Keywords: Auditing, Financial Reporting, Material Misstatements, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Maksymov, Eldar M. and Peecher, Mark E. and Sutherland, Andrew and Weber, Joseph Peter, Audit Partners’ Role in Material Misstatement Resolution: Survey and Interview Evidence (June 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4459495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4459495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
Abbott References , L J , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Accountancy Europe , ( Ae) ; Acito , A A , J J Burks , W B Johnson ; Agrawal , A , S Chadha
The Materiality of Accounting Errors: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva , C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How Do Audit Workpaper Reviewers Cope with the Conflicting Pressures of Detecting Misstatements and Balancing Client Workloads?
Contemporary Accounting Research (forthcoming) , volume 29 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
E C Altiero , Y J Kang , M E Peecher
Motivated Perspective Taking: Why Prompting Auditors to Take an Investor's Perspective Makes Them Treat Identified Audit Differences as Less Material
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 339 - 370 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
866
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,187
RANK
63,895
2 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies