Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Market Development and Corporate Earnings Management: Evidence from Banking and Branching Deregulations

Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023

Yichu Huang

East China University of Political Science and Law (ECUPL)

Hong Liu

Loughborough University - Loughborough Business School

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: May 8, 2023

Abstract

We investigate how external credit market development affects corporate earnings management, by studying the impact of the U.S. interstate banking and branching deregulations on the intensity of accruals-based and real earnings management. We find that the banking and branching deregulations significantly decrease both accruals-based and real earnings-management intensity among firms in deregulated states. The effect is stronger for those deregulated states that have lower bank branch density before deregulation and states that have greater out-of-state bank entry after deregulation. The impact on corporate earnings management is channelled through increased banking competition and credit supply providing firms with easier access to external financing. The findings are robust to various endogeneity concerns. We further document that interstate banking and branching deregulations reduce the instances of financial results being subsequently affected by accounting restatements and improve firms’ information environment.

Keywords: Financial Market Development; Interstate Banking and Branching Deregulations; Accruals-based and Real Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G30; G38; O16

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Yichu and Liu, Hong and Qiu, Buhui, Credit Market Development and Corporate Earnings Management: Evidence from Banking and Branching Deregulations (May 8, 2023). Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4460764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
M D Amore , C Schneider , A Žaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
J J Bai , D Fairhurst , M Sering
Employment Protection, Investment, and Firm Growth
Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 644 - 688 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Małgorzata Olszak , Christophe J. Godlewski , Gracjan Bachurewicz
Determinants of bank income smoothing: Cross-country evidence from EEA banks during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis
69 Pages · Posted: 28 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 74
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
872,402
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies