Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Preparedness for Accelerated Settlement

SWIFT Institute Working Paper No. 2022-003 (May 2023)

21 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Tony Gandy

The London Institute for Banking and Finance

Daniel Broby

Ulster University

Gary Wright

ISITC EUROPE CIC

Tony Freeman

ISITC EUROPE CIC

Mark Durkin

Ulster University - Business School

Date Written: May 30, 2023

Abstract

This paper discusses the progress made towards T+1 and instantaneous settlement in financial markets, and industry preparedness for such a change. We cover the various equity settlement technologies and analyse how collateral, stock lending and margin requirements can impact the settlement processes. The debate on shortening the equity settlement cycle is discussed, along with potential policy recommendations based on industry preparedness. The paper draws on 44 unstructured interviews and two focus group workshops with key stakeholders in the financial industry. This sample represents firms with total assets in the tens of trillions. The paper provides a comprehensive overview of the issues surrounding accelerated settlement and offers insights for industry practitioners. It was clear from our research that there is a perceived trade-off between the benefits of improving market efficiency and infrastructure and the increased risk of settlement failure. As our interviews were focused on those with settlement and operations functions, the tone of the responses was biased towards the latter. The findings of this study will help stakeholders identify gaps in their current settlement processes and develop strategies to meet the demands of accelerated settlement.

Keywords: Securities, Settlement, Swift

Suggested Citation:

Gandy, Anthony and Broby, Daniel and Wright, Gary and Freeman, Tony and Durkin, Mark, Industry Preparedness for Accelerated Settlement (May 30, 2023). SWIFT Institute Working Paper No. 2022-003 (May 2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4460512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4460512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Abel
Advancing the settlement model of the us securities markets
Journal of Securities Operations & Custody , volume 14 , p. 111 - 121 Posted: 2022
Afme
Advancing together: Leading the industry to accelerated settlement
Association for Financial Markets in Europe Posted: 2022
Afme
T+1 settlement in europe: Potential benefits and challenges. association for financial markets in europe Posted: 2022
M Asmar , S Trimbath
Regulatory reform and trade settlement failures in usa equity markets: Does regulatory reform matter
Quantitative Finance and Economics , volume 6 , p. 537 - 552 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
292,443
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies