Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Top Executives’ Narcissism on Working Capital Management Policies

Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 3 Aug 2023

Sanne R. van Duin

VU University Amsterdam

Hrishikesh Desai

Arkansas State University

Ziad ElKhatib

Arkansas State University

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the impact of top executives’ narcissism on firms’ working capital management. We argue that narcissistic top executives (CEOs and CFOs) operate farther from a firm’s optimal working capital level by pressurizing subordinate managers into maintaining certain inventory levels, pressurizing suppliers into accepting certain payment terms, and requiring customers to pay the firm in a certain amount of time. Using a sample of 626 U.S. firms and the size of their top executives’ signatures in SEC filings to measure individual narcissism, we find that, CEO (and not CFO) narcissism influences a firms’ working capital policies, specifically, by lowering their firm’s cash conversion cycle and the days it takes to turn inventory into sales. We argue that CEOs with narcissistic personality traits would want cash in their firms’ coffers as early as possible to showcase their own and their firm’s efficiency, regardless of the pressure it creates on subordinate managers to speed up the inventory to sales to collection pipeline and on external suppliers to accept payments at a date farther into the future.

Keywords: CEO narcissism, CFO narcissism, working capital, top executives, signature size, inter-firm relationships

JEL Classification: M10, M40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Duin, Sanne and Desai, Hrishikesh and ElKhatib, Ziad, The Influence of Top Executives’ Narcissism on Working Capital Management Policies (January 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4463634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4463634
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies