Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partisan Values and Financial Misconduct

47 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 17 Sep 2023

James O'Donovan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Anthony B. Rice

Villanova University - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 30, 2023

Abstract

We study the relationship between partisan values and financial adviser misconduct. Using
self-declared party affiliations from voter records as our proxy for individual values, we find that
Republican advisers are 11% more likely to commit financial misconduct than other advisers at
the same branch during the same year. We find that this relation is not driven by matching with
customers, changes in regulatory oversight, peer effects, or other time-varying omitted variables.
We also find that in-group biases related to political affiliation can increase financial misconduct
within firms, decrease misconduct-related turnover, and result in the reemployment of advisers
with prior misconduct. Our findings indicate that individual values are an important driver of
misconduct and that partisan in-group favoritism can result in labor-market disparities among
professionals in the same field.

Keywords: Politics, Financial Misconduct, Investment Advisers

JEL Classification: G24, G41

Suggested Citation:

O'Donovan, James and Rice, Anthony B., Partisan Values and Financial Misconduct (May 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4463768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4463768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Journal of political economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
A Bell , R Chetty , X Jaravel , N Petkova , J Van Reenen
The lifecycle of inventors. Unpublished manuscript Posted: 2016
S Bernstein , R Diamond , A Jiranaphawiboon , T Mcquade , B Pousada
The contribution of high-skilled immigrants to innovation in the united states Posted: 2022
G V Caprara , S Schwartz , C Capanna , M Vecchione , C Barbaranelli
Personality and politics: Values, traits, and political choice
Political psychology , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,743
RANK
162,079
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies