Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Capitals and Corporate Value Creation

48 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Sep 2023

Banita Bissoondoyal-Bheenick

RMIT University, Australia

Scott Bennett

Northern Trust Asset Management

Robert Lehnherr

Northern Trust Corporation - Northern Trust Asset Management

Angel Zhong

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Economics, Finance and Marketing

Date Written: May 31, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the interactive relationship among environmental, social and governance (ESG) capital, financial capital, innovation capital, manufacturing capital and corporate financial performance. The findings indicate that ESG capital positively affects financial performance in the short and long term; however, the relationship presents nonlinear patterns, and the more a firm can invest in ESG capital, the longer the value-creation process is sustained. Investment in ESG capital can also positively influence other tangible and intangible forms of capital, such as financial, innovation and manufacturing capitals, to improve financial returns. Our study contributes to the understanding of the value of ESG capital and investment practices based on corporate ESG factors.

Keywords: ESG, corporate value creation, sustainable finance, ESG reporting framework

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Bissoondoyal-Bheenick, Banita and Bennett, Scott and Lehnherr, Robert and Zhong, Angel, ESG Capitals and Corporate Value Creation (May 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4464541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4464541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
P Busch , S Obernberger
Actual share repurchases, price efficiency, and the information content of stock prices
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 324 - 362 Posted: 2017
T Busch , G Friede
The controversy over the relationship between corporate social and financial performance
Handbook of finance and sustainability , p. 97 - 110 Posted: 2018
D W Collins , S P Kothari
An analysis of intertemporal and cross-sectional determinants of earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 2-3 , p. 143 - 181 Posted: 1989
J Derwall , K Koedijk , J Ter Horst
A tale of values-driven and profit-seeking social investors
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , issue 8 , p. 2137 - 2147 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
251,747
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies