Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board's Digital Oversight and Expertise: Initial Findings from the Netherlands

Forthcoming in Corporate Governance and Artificial Intelligence - a conflicting or complementary approach (Edward Elgar, edited volume by prof. I. Dube)

Amsterdam Law School Research Paper No. 2023-23

Amsterdam Center for Law & Economics Working Paper No. 2023-08

19 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2023

Anne Lafarre

Tilburg Law School, Private Business and Labour Law Department, TILEC

Titiaan Keijzer

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: June 2, 2023

Abstract

The growing significance of digital technologies for companies is evident. While technological advancements offer substantial benefits to companies, they also introduce new risks that corporate boards may not be adequately prepared for. This chapter examines whether corporate boards can effectively integrate digital technology matters into their monitoring function. To explore this, the board's duty of oversight concerning digital matters is discussed first, primarily focusing on board duties in the Netherlands and the United States (Delaware). Subsequently, we analyze the oversight role and expertise of directors in the Netherlands in practice by performing an exploratory assessment of their biographies using natural language processing techniques. The analysis reveals that a majority of Dutch (supervisory) boards possess a certain level of digital savviness. Further research is needed to determine the optimal allocation of the board's oversight function regarding cybersecurity and other digital matters.

JEL Classification: K22, M12, M15

Suggested Citation:

Lafarre, Anne and Keijzer, Titiaan, Board's Digital Oversight and Expertise: Initial Findings from the Netherlands (June 2, 2023). Forthcoming in Corporate Governance and Artificial Intelligence - a conflicting or complementary approach (Edward Elgar, edited volume by prof. I. Dube), Amsterdam Law School Research Paper No. 2023-23, Amsterdam Center for Law & Economics Working Paper No. 2023-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4466946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Corporate Technologies. Enriques and Zetzsche , p. 30 - 31
Zetzsche Enriques
, p. 44 - 45
L Moerel , Prof , Dr , Moerel
Reflections on the Impact of the Digital Revolution on Corporate Governance of Listed Companies
Business, Digitization and Data Posted: 2019
R Feracone
Good Governance, Do Boards Need Cyber security Experts?
Forbes Posted: 2019-06-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
758
RANK
524,565
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies