Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Inflation Affect Earnings Relevance? A Century-Long Analysis

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

62 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2023 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Oliver Binz

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

John R. Graham

Duke University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: June 3, 2023

Abstract

Financial reports present assets, liabilities, and earnings on a nominal basis (unadjusted for inflation). Using a novel dataset of nearly a century of financial reports, we develop an analytical framework and empirically examine whether and how inflation affects the relation between accounting earnings and stock market value, i.e., earnings relevance. On the one hand, inflation may decrease earnings relevance as historical cost accounting relies on historical transaction prices that become less relevant when inflation changes the price level. On the other hand, when firms cannot fully pass on price increases to customers, inflation may increase earnings relevance by increasing the discount rate proportionally more than cash flows, thereby increasing the importance of near-term cash flows. Consistent with the latter hypothesis, we document a strong positive relation between earnings relevance and inflation. We find that inflation is of first-order importance relative to determinants of earnings relevance explored in prior literature. The results vary predictably in the cross-section, are robust to alternative measures of inflation and earnings relevance, and generalize internationally.

Keywords: JEL Classification: E31, G10, M40, M41 Inflation, Value Relevance, Earnings

JEL Classification: E31, G10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Binz, Oliver and Graham, John Robert and Kubic, Matthew, Does Inflation Affect Earnings Relevance? A Century-Long Analysis (June 3, 2023). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4467947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4467947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2015
R Ball
Accounting for Inflation: The Dog That Didn't Bark , volume 60 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2024
R Ball , G Sadka , R Sadka
Aggregate Earnings and Asset Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1097 - 1133 Posted: 2009
D R Baqaee , E Farhi
Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 135 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 163 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Yu-An Chen , Dan Palmon
The stock market boosts its rewards for increasing earnings patterns
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 663 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,826
RANK
132,557
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies