Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Ratings of ESG Index Providers

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4468531

53 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2023 Last revised: 18 Aug 2025

Sonakshi Agrawal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Lisa Yao Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Suhas A. Sridharan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Yifan (Eva) Yan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: August 07, 2025

Abstract

We explore the role of ESG raters’ business models in the production of their ratings, noting that increasingly ESG raters not only produce ESG ratings but also construct and sell index products based on their ESG ratings. We examine whether deriving revenue from ESG rating-based indices is associated with inflated ESG ratings for firms with higher stock returns. Consistent with this notion, we find that raters with strong index licensing incentives issue higher ESG ratings for firms with better stock return performance and those added to their ESG indices, compared to raters with weaker licensing incentives. By comparing ESG ratings for a firm across raters with high versus low index licensing incentives, we control for the firm’s fundamental ESG performance. We find that the results hold after accounting for different rating methodologies. Overall, our findings suggest that ESG ratings are associated with index construction incentives, highlighting the need for greater transparency in the incentives of producers of ESG ratings.

Keywords: ESG, index providers, rating agencies, sustainability, disclosure

JEL Classification: G24, M14, M40, M41, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Sonakshi and Liu, Lisa Yao and Rajgopal, Shivaram and Sridharan, Suhas A. and Yan, Yifan and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, ESG Ratings of ESG Index Providers (August 07, 2025). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4468531, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4468531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4468531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Yakov Amihud , Haim Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Yu An , Matteo Benetton , Yang Song
Index providers: Whales behind the scenes of etfs
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2023
Andrew C Baker , David F Larcker , C Y Charles , Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Brad M Barber , Xing Huang , Terrance Odean
Which factors matter to investors? evidence from mutual fund flows
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 2600 - 2642 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,833
RANK
13,664
10 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies