Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. R&D-Intensive Multinational Companies

53 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2023 Last revised: 4 Jun 2023

Jing Huang

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University - Pamplin College of Business

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: June 3, 2023

Abstract

The U.S. tax reform in 2017 introduced the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) tax to discourage U.S. multinational companies (MNCs) from shifting intangible income offshore. The reform simultaneously introduced the Foreign Derived Intangible Income (FDII) tax incentive to encourage companies to locate intangible income derived from export sales in the United States. We examine whether and how these two tax provisions affect the investment decisions of U.S. R&D-intensive MNCs. We find that these MNCs increase foreign tangible investments to minimize their GILTI tax burden but do not appear to decrease domestic tangible investments. To maximize FDII tax benefits, MNCs increase investments in both foreign and domestic human capital. We find MNCs are more likely to increase foreign human capital when they have more cross-border collaboration experience, consistent with the prediction that firms increase foreign R&D to better adapt home-developed technology for foreign markets. We further show that FDII incentivizes MNCs to cultivate a new R&D workforce in the U.S., as opposed to merely recruiting seasoned R&D personnel from other firms. Our findings have timely implications for policymakers to assess the impact of the 2017 tax reform.

Keywords: FDII, GILTI, Human Capital, Investment, R&D, TCJA

JEL Classification: M41, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Jing and Osswald, Benjamin and Wilson, Ryan J., The Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. R&D-Intensive Multinational Companies (June 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4468276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4468276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
294,806
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies