Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in Times of Crisis: The Case of the Serbian Developing Economy During COVID-19

Australian Journal of Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 7 Jun 2023

Vladimir Obradovic

Independent

Milan Cupic

University of Kragujevac - Faculty of Economics

Dragomir Dimitrijević

University of Kragujevac - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: June 5, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on financial reporting in Serbia from the perspective of preparers of financial statements. Notably, the pandemic affected financial reporting in Serbia and preparers faced more professional difficulties during than before the pandemic. Financial reporting problems regarding future expectations and uncertainty are an important source of concern for preparers. The preparers who apply International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) for Small and Medium-sized Entities (SMEs) perceive some more difficulties than those who apply full IFRSs. This study contributes to the scarce literature regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on financial reporting.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, crisis, financial reporting, International Financial Reporting Standards, preparers of financial statements

JEL Classification: M41, G01

Suggested Citation:

Obradovic, Vladimir and Čupić, Milan and Dimitrijević, Dragomir, Financial Reporting in Times of Crisis: The Case of the Serbian Developing Economy During COVID-19 (June 5, 2023). Australian Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4469786
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies