Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selection Bias in Audit Firm Tenure Research

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

David P. Weber

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Ce Wen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 5, 2023

Abstract

Whether audit firm tenure affects audit quality is a question of longstanding regulatory and scholarly interest. While this question centers on how audit quality changes over time within client-audit firm relationships (longitudinal variation), prior studies tend to instead compare audit quality across relationships of different lengths (cross-sectional variation). We show that conventional pooled cross-sectional tests are subject to selection bias: client-auditor pairs that select into longer versus shorter relationships differ systematically in a variety of ways that also relate to measures of audit quality. These differences exist at the outset of relationships and thus are not attributable to tenure but rather predict the ultimate length of relationships. We then re-examine models of audit quality and tenure after including client-audit firm relationship fixed effects, moving the level of analysis from between clients (cross-sectional) to within client-auditor pairs (longitudinal). We find no evidence that audit quality changes with tenure over time within client-audit firm relationships. The combined evidence suggests that the previously documented association between audit firm tenure and audit quality is likely attributable to selection bias and cannot be taken as evidence of a causal link. More broadly, our results highlight the importance of a design perspective that isolates variation tightly linked to the research question being examined.

Keywords: Auditor Tenure, Audit Quality, Selection Bias, Fixed Effects, Auditor Turnover

JEL Classification: C18, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Ying and Weber, David P. and Wen, Ce, Selection Bias in Audit Firm Tenure Research (June 5, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4469801
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies