Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Financial Experience of SEC Regional Directors Impact SEC Investigations?

53 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2023 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2024

Abstract

The SEC’s Division of Enforcement is frequently criticized for its ineffective oversight, and certain vocal critics attribute this to a lack of financial experience within the SEC. Using novel hand-collected data on SEC regional directors, I find that most of these senior SEC officials lack practical financial experience. I then use a staggered difference-in-differences research design and find that directors with financial experience open 62 percent more investigations (i.e., four to five additional investigations per office-year). This result is consistent with their experience impacting investigations. Additional analyses reveal that this effect is stronger when financial acumen likely matters more and that financial directors conduct more efficient and consequential investigations. Importantly, these results do not appear to be explained by the experience of other SEC staffers or by financial regional directors handling more cases. This study answers recent calls for more research on individual regulators and presents timely evidence as the SEC seeks to improve its investigation process. More generally, these findings provide new insights into the SEC’s oversight process and should be of interest to regulators and market participants concerned with SEC oversight.

Keywords: SEC regional directors, SEC investigations, Enforcement, Financial experience.

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48.

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James, Does the Financial Experience of SEC Regional Directors Impact SEC Investigations? (March 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4470329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4470329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
207,451
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies