Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Regulatory Inaction: Evidence from IFRS Non-Adoption

69 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2023

Miao Liu

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Wanrong Xu

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Rachel Xi Zhang

NUS Business School

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

A growing literature has examined the benefits and costs of implementing new disclosure regulations. However, little is known about the consequences when regulators fail to take action. Using IFRS adoption in 2005 as the setting, we examine the costs of regulatory inactions among non-adopting countries. We find that firms located in non-adopting countries with a higher overlap of common investors with firms in IFRS-adopting countries experience a significant decline in liquidity. Employing a within-firm-time design, we further demonstrate that analysts and institutional investors shift their attention from non-IFRS firms when other firms in their portfolios adopt IFRS. Moreover, the decline in liquidity and the associated reduction in information production by analysts and institutional investors are particularly pronounced in non-adopting countries with weak reporting enforcement actions and increasing accounting distance from IFRS standards. Overall, our findings highlight the potential costs of regulatory inaction. Valuable information production resources are diverted to the new regime, resulting in a worsened information environment for companies in the old regime.

Keywords: Regulatory Inaction, Information Processing, IFRS

JEL Classification: G1, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Miao and Xu, Wanrong and Zhang, Rachel Xi, The Cost of Regulatory Inaction: Evidence from IFRS Non-Adoption (September 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4472836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4472836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2023
K.-H Bae , T Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact of foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
R Ball
By what criteria do we evaluate accounting? Some thoughts on economic welfare and the archival literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 54 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
369,949
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies