Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Performance and the Internal Control Environment

Accounting Horizons, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2023 Last revised: 15 Jun 2023

Jacquelyn Sue Moffitt

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - E.J. Ourso College of Business Administration

Jeanne-Claire Patin

McNeese State University

Luke Watson

Villanova University

Date Written: June 7, 2023

Abstract

We consider how corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance relates to the strength of the internal control environment. The transparent reporting hypothesis predicts that high ESG performance signals ethical decision making and/or strong financial performance, both of which manifest in a stronger internal control environment and therefore fewer material weaknesses in internal controls. We find that ESG performance is negatively related to the likelihood of general internal control weaknesses, consistent with transparent reporting. We also find that ESG performance is negatively related to company-level internal control weaknesses, which are considered relatively severe. Further, we find that ESG performance is negatively associated with specific internal control weaknesses that indicate a lack of ethical tone at the top. We find support for both ethical and performance explanations behind the transparent reporting hypothesis. Overall, our results suggest that ESG performance is positively associated with the strength of the internal control environment.

Keywords: internal controls, ESG, sustainability

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Moffitt, Jacquelyn Sue and Patin, Jeanne-Claire and Watson, Luke, Corporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Performance and the Internal Control Environment (June 7, 2023). Accounting Horizons, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4472515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4472515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S M Albring , R J Elder , X Xu
Unexpected fees and the prediction of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 485 - 505 Posted: 2016
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
N Apergis , T Poufinas , A Antonopoulos
ESG scores and cost of debt
Energy Economics , volume 112 Posted: 2022
A Belkaoui
The entropy law, information decomposition measures, and corporate takeover
Journal of Business, Finance, and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 41 - 52 Posted: 1976
Load more
3 Citations
Longsheng Wu , Siyao Liu , Lingli Qi , Deqin Lin
Mandatory disclosure and corporate ESG performance: Evidence from China's “explanation for nondisclosure” requirement
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 176 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Angelo Leogrande
Integrating ESG Principles into Smart Logistics: Toward Sustainable Supply Chains
547 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 479
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Han Dai , Daeun Lee , Ying Liang , Barri Litt
ESG Ratings and CEO Charitable Stock Donations: Is Firm ESG Aligned with CEO Personal Philanthropy?
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance, 0[<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/jcaf.22773" rel="nofollow">10.1002/jcaf.22773</a>] · 52 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 6 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 45
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
856
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,306
RANK
65,156
3 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies