Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Estimation of the Nexus between Corporate Governance and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from the Non-Financial Sector

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023

Habib Ur Rahman

Holmes Institute

Muhammad Waqas Yousaf

Pakistan Institute of Development Economics

Date Written: June 8, 2023

Abstract

The study aims to examine the impact of corporate governance indicators on the financial performance of the non-financial sector of Pakistan. For this purpose, we use the panel data of 100 non-financial listed firms from 2010 to 2018. This study applies the widely used corporate governance indicators, including board size, CEO duality, audit committee independence, and ownership structure. In this estimation setting, the standard fixed and random effect models are unsuitable for dealing with the issues of (1) endogeneity, (2) unobserved heteroscedasticity, and (3) the correlation between regressors and the lagged dependent variables. Therefore, we estimate the dynamic panel model using the difference generalised method of moments (GMM) under the Arellano-Bond framework to arrive at unbiased and consistent estimates. The findings of this empirical investigation reveal that the independence of the audit committee improves the financial performance of the non-financial sector of Pakistan. The most striking result from the data is that CEO duality deteriorates financial performance. This is the first study in this econometric setting that uses a wide range of non-financial data from 100 listed firms. The principal practical implication of this study is that the audit committee must be competent, diversified and independent, which further suggest the firms can adopt the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as the best practice rather than regulations. Therefore, a key policy priority should be to plan for the establishment of an oversight board to implement the global best practices. Ensuring appropriate systems, services and support for effective and transparent internal controls and creating a better audit environment should be a priority for the policymakers and regulators.

Keywords: Corporate governance, financial performance, return on assets, return on equity, CEO duality, firm size

JEL Classification: G30, G39, M14, and M41.

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Habib Ur and Yousaf, Muhammad Waqas, Dynamic Estimation of the Nexus between Corporate Governance and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from the Non-Financial Sector (June 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4473682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4473682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
J Abor , N Biekpe
Corporate governance, ownership structure and performance of SMEs in Ghana: implications for financing opportunities
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 300 Posted: 2007
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
W M Al-Ahdal , M H Alsamhi , M I Tabash , N H Farhan
The impact of corporate governance on financial performance of Indian and GCC listed firms: An empirical investigation
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 51 Posted: 2020
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
687,436
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies