Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Chains in Multinational Enterprises

50 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Stefania Miricola

IMT School for Advanced Studies Lucca - Analysis of Complex Economic Systems Unit

Armando Rungi

Scuola IMT Alti Studi Lucca

Gianluca Santoni

Centre d'Etudes Prospectives et d'Info. Internationales (CEPII)

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

This study examines how multinational enterprises (MNEs) structure ownership chains to coordinate subsidiaries across multiple national borders. Using a unique global dataset, we first document key stylized facts: 54% of subsidiaries are controlled through indirect ownership, and ownership chains can span up to seven countries. In particular, we find that subsidiaries further down the hierarchy tend to be more geographically distant from the parent and often operate in different time zones. This suggests that the ease of communication along ownership chains is a critical determinant of their structure. Motivated by these findings, we develop a location choice model in which parent firms compete for corporate control of final subsidiaries. When monitoring is costly, they may delegate control to an intermediate affiliate in another jurisdiction. The model generates a two-stage empirical strategy: (i) a trilateral equation that determines the location of an intermediate affiliate conditional on the location of final subsidiaries; and (ii) a bilateral equation that predicts the location of final investment. Our empirical estimates confirm that the ease of communication at the country level significantly influences the location decisions of affiliates along ownership chains. These findings underscore the importance of organizational frictions in shaping global corporate structures and provide new insights into the geography of multinational ownership networks.

Keywords: multinational enterprises, ownership structure, corporate control, ease of communication, knowledge hierarchies, ownership chains

JEL Classification: F23, L23, G34, L22

Suggested Citation:

Miricola, Stefania and Rungi, Armando and Santoni, Gianluca, Ownership Chains in Multinational Enterprises (April 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4474239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4474239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of political economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
L Alfaro , P Antràs , D Chor , P Conconi
Internalizing Global Value Chains: A Firm-Level Analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 127 , issue 2 , p. 508 - 559 Posted: 2019
C Altomonte , G I Ottaviano , A Rungi , T Sonno
Business groups as knowledge-based hierarchies of firms Posted: 2021
C Altomonte , A Rungi
Business groups as hierarchies of firms: determinants of vertical integration and performance Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
552,669
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies