Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging the Gap: A Study of Government Suppliers' Reporting Practices

55 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 29 Jul 2025

Akram Khalilov

BI Norwegian Business School

Tobias Witter

Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin

Date Written: June 09, 2019

Abstract

Using 4 million procurement contracts valued at around $1 trillion, we examine the financial reporting quality of government suppliers. We document that government suppliers demonstrate higher-quality financial reporting than do firms without government contracts. This finding is partly attributable to improvements in firms' internal controls over financial reporting following contracting with the government. Additionally, we document that procurement contract clauses related to competitive procedures, government monitoring, and certification of internal information accuracy contribute to the quality of financial reporting. We address potential endogeneity concerns by studying changes in congressional committee leadership and performing difference-in-differences analyses around first- and last-time contract awards. Our findings highlight the role of government customers in enhancing the quality of mandatory disclosures and internal controls.

Keywords: government procurement, financial reporting quality, political cost hypothesis

JEL Classification: G14; G18; H57; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Khalilov, Akram and Witter, Tobias, Bridging the Gap: A Study of Government Suppliers' Reporting Practices (June 09, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4474360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4474360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
N Ahadiat , K Ehrenreich
Regulatory audit functions and auditor-contractor relationships
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. 4 - 10 Posted: 1996
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , M Grady
Political connections and the trade-off between real and accrual-based earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 2730 - 2757 Posted: 2018
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
K L Anderson , T L Yohn
The effect of 10K restatements on firm value, information asymmetries, and investors' reliance on earnings Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
357,435
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies