Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutions and Corporate Tax Evasion: A Review of Literature and a Methodological Exploration

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

Journal of International Accounting Research, forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: June 9, 2023

Abstract

We first review the recent research published in the Journal of International Accounting Research (JIAR) on the influence of international institutions on accounting practices and follow it with a discussion of the literature studying the influence of institutions on tax avoidance and tax evasion. We then explore a new methodological approach that draws on the theory of institutional hierarchy proposed by Williamson (2000) and examine the relative importance of three broad types of institutions (informal, formal and media) in curtailing perceived tax evasion activities. We contribute to the international accounting literature by summarizing the recent research that addresses tax avoidance and tax evasion and providing preliminary evidence on how employing an institutional hierarchy approach can address the interdependencies between commonly used institutional factors.

Keywords: Perceived tax evasion, Tax avoidance, Institutional economics, Institutional hierarchy, Accounting practices

JEL Classification: H26, G28, O16

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Institutions and Corporate Tax Evasion: A Review of Literature and a Methodological Exploration (June 9, 2023). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4474092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4474092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
K Ahern , D Daminielli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , G Mcclelland , M Schulze
Why do people pay taxes
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance , volume 36 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
No Name , Vishnu K Ramesh
Unveiling Tax Avoidance: Beware the Devil in the Guise of ESG Reforms
CORFIN-D-24-01070 · 55 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
318,538
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies