Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inside the Board: Decision Readiness, Meeting Dynamics, and Decision Outcomes

58 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2023

Lucas Ayres B. de C. Barros

University of Sao Paulo

Sandra Guerra

Better Governance

Rafael Liza Santos

Better Governance

Date Written: June 12, 2023

Abstract

We investigated the interplay among four constructs related to meeting dynamics and their relationships with decision outcomes on boards of directors, which includes perceived overall board performance, creativity/innovativeness and ethicality of board decisions. We obtained responses from 358 board members using an original survey instrument distributed internationally, although most respondents in the final sample are based in South America. We employed recently developed analytical tools, including the pioneering application of confirmatory composite analysis in the survey-based board literature. Our results indicate that the four explanatory composite variables, named board-level decision readiness, debate and cognitive divergence, safety and trust climate, and information and opinion sharing are positively interrelated and are positively associated with the composite representing decision outcomes, even after controlling for myriad respondent-, organization-, and board-level characteristics, including board demographics, functioning and structure. We also found evidence of complementary mediating channels; in particular, our results are compatible with the conjecture that board-level decision readiness benefits decision outcomes directly and indirectly through its positive influence on the other constructs related to meeting dynamics. In contrast, we found no evidence of nonlinearity in the relationships between decision outcomes and the aforementioned constructs. Additional disaggregated analyses reveal that decision outcomes may be most enhanced in boardrooms in which members are well prepared, have adequate time to make decisions, feel comfortable disagreeing with others, and trust the executives. This research, which relies on the perceptions of board members themselves, complements previous studies mainly by focusing on decision readiness as a group-level phenomenon and providing evidence regarding its potential role in board dynamics and decision-making.

Keywords: Board of directors, decision readiness, board processes, board dynamics, decision-making, confirmatory composite analysis.

Suggested Citation:

Barros, Lucas Ayres Barreira de Campos and Guerra, Sandra and Liza Santos, Rafael, Inside the Board: Decision Readiness, Meeting Dynamics, and Decision Outcomes (June 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4475897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4475897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
RANK
135,168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies