Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Winter is coming? Zombie firms and ownership type in Canada

48 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 3 Dec 2023

Alexander Amundsen

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Amélie Lafrance

Statistics Canada

Danny Leung

Government of Canada - Department of Finance Canada

Date Written: March 22, 2023

Abstract

The zombie firm literature has typically used datasets that under-represent small firms or include only listed firms. In this paper, we present new evidence on the zombie firm phenomenon using a confidential dataset that covers the entire population of Canadian firms. We find the majority of zombie firms have between 1-5 employees and that private zombie firms differ substantially from their listed counterparts. Nevertheless, zombification is worsening, where: zombie firms are increasingly in the commodity sector; are hoarding more resources; are declining in their performance and productivity; are hurting the productivity and growth of healthy firms; and are increasingly lowering aggregate productivity.

Keywords: Zombie firms, Firm size, Ownership type

JEL Classification: D24, G32, L22

Suggested Citation:

Amundsen, Alexander and Lafrance, Amélie and Leung, Danny, Winter is coming? Zombie firms and ownership type in Canada (March 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4476595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
V V Acharya , L Borchert , M Jager , S Steffen
Kicking the can down the road: Government interventions in the European banking sector
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 4090 - 4131 Posted: 2021
V V Acharya , M Crosignani , T Eisert , C Eufinger
Zombie credit and (dis-)inflation: Evidence from Europe Posted: 2020
V V Acharya , M Crosignani , T Eisert , S Steffen
Zombie lending: Theoretical, international and historical perspectives Posted: 2022
V V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Whatever it takes: The real effects of unconventional monetary policy
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 9 , p. 3366 - 3411 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,970
RANK
432,018
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies