Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC’s Use of Voluntary Disclosure for the Oversight of Mandatory Disclosure

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4477255

Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Rafael Rogo

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ray Zhang

Simon Fraser University - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: December 8, 2022

Abstract

One key challenge of regulatory oversight is information asymmetry between the regulator and the regulated. We investigate this issue through a unique setting in which the SEC uses firms’ voluntary disclosures to bridge the information gap during their periodic reviews of mandatory disclosures. We first document that over the sample period 2004-2019, reviewers increasingly quote information from conference calls in their comment letters on annual reports, requesting clarifications or future improvements (averaging over 5% during our sample period). We then develop a conceptual framework of key tradeoffs faced by the regulator to guide our empirical investigation of the determinants and consequences of such regulatory behavior. Consistent with our framework, we find that reviewers are more likely to cross-check conference call disclosures when a firm’s annual report disclosures suggest higher uncertainty or gloomy prospects, when a firm’s review process triggers concerns about potential disclosure issues, when a firm has high media coverage or more corporate events, when a firm has an eventful earnings season, or when reviewers themselves are not busy. Finally, we show that such regulatory behavior leads to some unintended consequences of firms reducing future conference call disclosures, which slows down price discovery during earnings announcements. Overall, our findings shed light on the inner workings of regulatory oversight, highlighting that referencing voluntary disclosures during regulatory scrutiny of mandatory disclosures may amplify firms’ concern about regulatory risks associated with voluntary disclosures and reduce future voluntary disclosures.

Keywords: SEC, information asymmetry, voluntary disclosure, mandatory disclosure, comment letters, earnings conference calls, computational linguistic methods

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kai and Rogo, Rafael and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee) and Zhang, Ray, The SEC’s Use of Voluntary Disclosure for the Oversight of Mandatory Disclosure (December 8, 2022). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4477255, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4477255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4477255
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Lauren M. Cunningham , Taylor Joo
Sin Stocks and SEC Filing Reviews
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies