Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Good Name is Rather to Be Chosen: The Impact of CEO Reputation on Corporate Green Innovation

37 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023

Xiaonan Sun

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Date Written: June 14, 2023

Abstract

In contrast to studies examining the effects of government incentives such as environmental regulation on corporate green innovation, this paper investigates the influence of CEO reputation, a market-based incentive mechanism, on companies’ green innovation behavior. Utilizing green patent data from Chinese A-share listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen between 2007 and 2020, we construct a CEO reputation index through principal component analysis and examine its impact on corporate green innovation behavior and underlying mechanisms. Our findings indicate that CEO reputation has a significantly positive effect on companies’ green innovation behavior. This effect is primarily driven by the reduction of financing constraints and CEOs’ perception of risk. Further heterogeneity analysis reveals that the positive relationship between CEO reputation and green innovation behavior is more pronounced in companies with strong executive compensation incentives, political connections, and effective internal control.

Keywords: green innovation; CEO reputation; executive motivation

JEL Classification: O310, Q550, M140, M520, G300

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Xiaonan, A Good Name is Rather to Be Chosen: The Impact of CEO Reputation on Corporate Green Innovation (June 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4478353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4478353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Abbas
Impact of total quality management on corporate green performance through the mediating role of corporate social responsibility
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 242 Posted: 2020
S Ambec , M A Cohen , S Elgie , P Lanoie
The Porter Hypothesis at 20: Can Environmental Regulation Enhance Innovation and Competitiveness?
Review of Environmental Economics and Policy , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 22 Posted: 2013
C Arena , G Michelon , G Trojanowski
Big Egos Can Be Green: A Study of CEO Hubris and Environmental Innovation: CEO Hubris and Environmental Innovation
British Journal of Management , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 316 - 336 Posted: 2018
L Bai , X Yan , G Yu
Impact of CEO media appearance on corporate performance in social media
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 50 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
876
RANK
432,018
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies