Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using GPT to measure business complexity

56 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2023 Last revised: 22 Aug 2025

Darren Bernard

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Elizabeth Blankespoor

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Ties de Kok

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: August 21, 2025

Abstract

Business complexity involves important tradeoffs for managers and investors, but empirical evidence is limited by measurement issues. We construct and validate a measure of business complexity using a GPT model fine-tuned on narrative disclosures and inline XBRL tags. We first show that our measure is associated with slower price formation in capital markets, consistent with complexity increasing processing costs. Next, we apply our measure to study the complexity of debt, an economically important topic that encompasses a wide range of features. The results show that non-standard debt features such as call and convertibility provisions underlie debt complexity. We also find that debt complexity correlates with more persistent interest expense and better performance when lending conditions worsen, suggesting it is in part an adaptive response to manage financial risk. Overall, our study underscores the tradeoffs of business complexity and provides a flexible measure of complexity for future research.

Keywords: complexity, textual analysis, GPT, price formation, machine learning, debt

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G14, G30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Darren and Blankespoor, Elizabeth and de Kok, Ties and Toynbee, Sara, Using GPT to measure business complexity (August 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4480309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4480309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Posted: 2022
A Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z M Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2025
K D Allee , C Do , H Do
Contextualization of numbers in earnings conference calls Posted: 2023
B W Ambrose , Y Han , S Korgaonkar , L Shen
Information in financial contracts: Evidence from securitization agreements
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1692 - 1725 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,795
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,625
RANK
22,049
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies