Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Lowball Guidance Work? An Analysis of Firms that Consistently Beat Their Guidance by Large Margins

The British Accounting Review, November 2023, Vol. 55, Issue 6, pp. 101219

62 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2023 Last revised: 2 May 2024

Jing Chen

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Michael (Minye) Tang

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: June 18, 2023

Abstract

Lowball guidance is the practice of firm managers issuing overly cautious guidance that is later exceeded by a large margin upon earnings announcement. In this study, we examine this practice at the episode level, where a firm engages in it over multiple consecutive quarters. Using a control sample of firms that exhibited episodes of meet or small beats, we draw inferences specific to lowball guidance episodes. We assess their prevalence in a broad sample of firms and provide evidence related to two explanations of lowball guidance episodes: firms’ earnings uncertainty, and to a lesser extent, firms’ attempt to appease sell-side analysts and institutional investors. Stock return tests suggest that there are short-term capital market benefits to lowball guidance episodes, but the benefits dissipate eventually. Our results indicate that episodes of lowball guidance likely appeal to certain types of market participants in the short term, but they are not sustainable.

Keywords: Guidance, management forecasts, lowball, lowballing

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jing and Jung, Michael J. and Tang, Michael, Does Lowball Guidance Work? An Analysis of Firms that Consistently Beat Their Guidance by Large Margins (June 18, 2023). The British Accounting Review, November 2023, Vol. 55, Issue 6, pp. 101219, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4483510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How much new information is there in earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
L S Bamber , K W Hui , P E Yeung
Managers' EPS forecasts: Nickeling and diming the market?
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 95 Posted: 2010
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
511,510
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies