Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the ‘Numbers Game’ differ internationally?

62 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2023 Last revised: 28 May 2024

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Fernando Caio Galdi

Fundacao Instituto Capixaba de Pesquisas em Contabilidade, Economia e Financas (FUCAPE)

Date Written: March 27, 2024

Abstract

Despite weaker earnings quality, enforcement, and institutional settings in developing countries, we find that earnings forecast accuracy is higher in developing than in developed countries. This presents a puzzling phenomenon, and we offer the ‘numbers game’ (managers gain by minimizing unfavorable surprises, while analysts gain by accessing private information) as a compelling explanation. We advance the prior literature on the ‘numbers game’ that has generally been limited to the stronger institutional setting of the United States, by exploring whether the ‘numbers game’ differs in weaker institutional settings. We find evidence of higher accruals management, forecast walkdowns, and meeting or beating of earnings targets in developing countries. Together, this evidence suggests that in weaker institutional and regulatory settings, the ‘numbers game’ is played more aggressively likely due to lower costs in the form of prosecution threats and penalties to the participants, and that explains the higher analysts’ accuracy in developing countries. However, we predict and find that if the nexus involving trading favors between managers and analysts stands exposed (for financially stressed firms), these differences do not persist. As in such cases, the costs involved in continuing the game generally outweigh the benefits. Thus, in developing countries, there are limits to analysts’ and managers’ willingness to play the ‘numbers game.’

Keywords: Equity Analysts, Developing countries, Developed countries, Earnings forecasts, Numbers game, Financial stress

JEL Classification: G15; G33; M41

Suggested Citation:

De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Gupta, Jairaj and Galdi, Fernando Caio, Does the ‘Numbers Game’ differ internationally? (March 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4483717 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4483717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
Turkey 1,287 .105 .087 1,618 .112 .094 United Arab Emirates , volume 48
Chen
This table reports the sample breakdown for the mean of analysts' earnings forecast error considering the sample where we include DISPEF and PREBUY as controls and a sample where we do not (this increases the number of observations by roughly 84,000 and is more comparable to the WLKD sample) , volume 275 Posted: 2003
J S Abarbanell , W N Lanen , R E Verrecchia
Analysts' Forecasts as Proxies for Investor Beliefs in Empirical Research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
A Ardichvili , D Jondle , B Kowske , E Cornachione , J Li , T Thakadipuram
Ethical cultures in large business organizations in Brazil, Russia, India, and China
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 105 , issue 4 , p. 415 - 428 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
379,149
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies