Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It Costs to Have Political Ties: Boardroom Homophily and Cost of Equity Capital

Posted: 28 Jun 2023

Samsul Alam

Samsul Alam

Date Written: June 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of political homophily on the cost of equity capital. Using a large sample of hand-collected political donation data, we find firms with strong political homophily experience higher cost of equity capital. This relationship holds strong when we employ a battery of endogeneity tests, alternative measures of cost of equity capital and political homophily and subsamples. We show that default risk and credit ratings are two channels via which political homophily increases cost of equity capital. Firms with stronger political homophily are negatively associated with default risk and credit ratings, suggesting that political similarity breeds greater risk. Our cross-sectional analysis suggests that the effect of political ideological alignment on the cost of equity capital is more pronounced in firms with poor information environment and corporate governance. Overall, our study adds to the cost of capital literature by finding a unique determinant of the cost of equity and to the political ideology literature by demonstrating the cost of political homophily in corporate outcomes.

Keywords: Political homophily, Cost of equity capital, Default risk, Credit risk

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Samsul, It Costs to Have Political Ties: Boardroom Homophily and Cost of Equity Capital (June 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4484326
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies