Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The UBS-Credit Suisse Merger: Helvetia’s Gift

Forthcoming in Journal of Applied Corporate Finance

41 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Pascal Böni

Tilburg University; Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Tim Alexander Kroencke

FHNW School of Business

Florin P. Vasvari

London Business School

Date Written: June 20, 2023

Abstract

The UBS- Credit Suisse (CS) merger in March 2023, one of the biggest banking unions in history, was an emergency rescue deal engineered by Swiss authorities to avoid more market-shaking turmoil in global banking. The merger resulted in a significant increase in the combined stakeholder net wealth, totaling 19.5 billion US dollars. This increase was distributed around the merger announcement through abnormal returns to UBS stockholders (7.95%) and CS bondholders (34.74%), equivalent to approximately 5.1 billion and 18.8 billion US dollars, respectively. In contrast, CS stockholders experienced negative abnormal stockholder returns of -55% (-4.4 billion USD) while the UBS bonds’ value was not impacted by the merger. We infer that UBS stockholders received a wealth transfer from CS stockholders and that this transfer is likely explained by unusual restrictions on the number of bidders for CS. The observed effects on bondholders’ wealth align with previous research on coinsurance and the implications of “too-big-to-fail” research findings. We conclude that the combined wealth effect, which cannot be attributed to the short-term abnormal returns on securities of the two banks, is externally driven. It appears to come at the expense of taxpayers: the merger-bailout has increased Switzerland’s sovereign credit risk, resulting in an expected 6 to 7 billion US dollars in additional debt costs for the country.

Keywords: Economic crises, bank bailouts, merger, fire-sale, additional tier 1 (AT1), contingent convertible bonds(CoCo), regulation, security design, systemically important banks (SIB), too-big-to-fail

JEL Classification: G01, G10, G14, G20, G21, G28, G32, G33, G34, G38, H12

Suggested Citation:

Böni, Pascal and Kroencke, Tim Alexander and Vasvari, Florin P., The UBS-Credit Suisse Merger: Helvetia’s Gift (June 20, 2023). Forthcoming in Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4486417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4486417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Archegos default and CS's involvement
for more information on the dirty money scandal
for more information on the Bidzina Ivanishvili scandal
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,443
RANK
32,088
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies