Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Firms Disclose Analyst Following on Their Corporate Websites?

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

44 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023

Afshad J. Irani

Washington and Lee University

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

Date Written: June 20, 2023

Abstract

About two-thirds of S&P500 firms disclose their analyst following on their corporate websites. Half of these firms disclose their analyst following in an unbiased fashion, while the rest manage this disclosure by selectively omitting analysts with pessimistic views (selective disclosers). Consistent with facing stronger incentives to manage expectations, coupled with weaker information environments and monitoring by external stakeholders, selective disclosers exhibit lower profitability, higher growth opportunities, stronger financing needs and a greater percentage of retail investor ownership. Moreover, selective disclosers experience lower future returns and exhibit higher income smoothing and lower accrual quality. Taken together, our evidence is consistent with some firms attempting to serve their strategic needs by selectively excluding from their websites analysts with less favorable views of their firm.

Keywords: Disclosure, Analyst Following, Corporate Websites

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Irani, Afshad Jeevan and Karamanou, Irene, Why Do Firms Disclose Analyst Following on Their Corporate Websites? (June 20, 2023). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4486526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
H Ashbaugh , K Johnstone , T Warfield
Corporate Reporting on the Internet. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
B Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Can investors profit from the prophets? Security analyst recommendations and stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 531 - 563 Posted: 2001
B Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Reassessing the returns to analysts' stock recommendations
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 59 , p. 88 - 96 Posted: 2003
B Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Buys, holds, and sells: The distribution of investment banks' stock ratings and the implications for the profitability of analysts' recommendations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 117 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
552,669
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies