Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board of Directors and Firm Information Locality

Posted: 22 Jun 2023

Wenhong Ding

NEOMA Business School

Date Written: June 21, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines directors’ role in disseminating geographically dispersed information and thus helping CEOs make better operational decisions. I measure a firm’s geographical dispersion of operation and economically connected (EC) states based on a textual analysis of 10-K fillings. I posit that a director has geographical expertise about a state if her main employment is in that state. I find that firms hire directors whose geographical expertise matches the firms’ EC states. In addition, firms with a higher percentage of directors from the top EC states have significantly higher management forecast accuracy. The effect is more pronounced when the firm’s business geographical dispersion is higher, when its EC states have higher economic uncertainty, when the geographical distance between its EC states and its headquarter state is greater; or when its EC states have less public information. Moreover, a firm’s merger and acquisition announcements observe higher market reactions when at least one of its directors is from the target firm’s state. Also, the firm’s sales to a customer are more likely to increase in the current and the next year if at least one of its directors is from that customer’s state.

Keywords: board of directors; information difussion; earnings guidance

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Wenhong, Board of Directors and Firm Information Locality (June 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4487413
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
256
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies