Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk, Reward, and Ratings: How Firms Use Tax Avoidance to Sustain Inflated Credit Ratings

45 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 13 Jun 2025

Sean Flynn

Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Todd D. Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Samuel Piotrowski

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Finance & Real Estate

Date Written: June 13, 2025

Abstract

We show that credit rating inflation leads to greater tax avoidance. Furthermore, firms with inflated ratings that avoid taxes are less likely to be downgraded in the immediate future, suggesting that tax planning can allow firms to maintain inflated ratings, and the associated benefits, over a longer time period. Firms with riskier investments are more likely to avoid taxes when ratings are inflated, consistent with rating inflation allowing such firms to temporarily pool with lower-risk firms. In contrast, firms with less incentive to maintain an elevated rating level do not avoid taxes as much.

Keywords: Credit Rating Inflation, Tax Avoidance, Investment Risk

JEL Classification: G24, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Flynn, Sean and Kravet, Todd D. and Krupa, Trent and Piotrowski, Samuel, Risk, Reward, and Ratings: How Firms Use Tax Avoidance to Sustain Inflated Credit Ratings (June 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4487424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4487424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
W Alissa , I V Bonsall , S Koharki , K Penn , M
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , I Cunha , M A Ferreira , F Restrepo
The real effects of credit ratings: The sovereign ceiling channel
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 290 Posted: 2017
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of book-tax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,464
RANK
254,445
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies