Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and the Majority-of-the-Minority Rule: Data-Driven Evidence from China and Implications for Europe

Chao Xi, ‘Related Party Transactions and the Majority-of-the-Minority Rule: Data-Driven Evidence from China and Implications for Europe’ Journal of Business Law ‘ [2023: Issue 4] pp. 309-336

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-20

30 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2023

Chao Xi

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 22, 2023

Abstract

In many countries around the world it is common for companies to enter into self-dealing transactions with so-called ‘related parties’, which can either be management, directors or controlling shareholders. These transactions are known as related party transactions (RPTs), or as corporate self-dealing. While RPTs could enhance shareholder value, they have also been criticized as a potential tool for value diversion and rent extraction by corporate insiders and controllers. One of the most contentious topics in the regulation of RTPs is the majority-of-the-minority (MOM) vote. The MOM is a well-established rule in many jurisdictions, and it purports to provide non-controlling and minority shareholders with protection against expropriation by corporate controllers and insiders. The MOM is by its nature a shareholder decision rights strategy, using the taxonomy developed by a seminal work on comparative corporate law. It in effect vests decision-making authority over the transaction tainted with conflicts in non-conflicted shareholders, and subjects it to approval by a majority of the disinterested votes cast. Interested controllers and insiders are effectively denied a vote in the matter. Hence, the MOM has also been described as a “property rule”, as it prevents any conflicted transaction from proceeding without the minority shareholders’ consent. In essence, the MOM confers veto rights upon the minority.

Surprisingly missing in the current comparative discourse is the case of China, an economy characterised by a high degree of concentrated ownership and a prevalence of business groups that are broadly on par with many of its continental European counterparts. China has adopted the MOM for over two decades (since 2000), and its experience promises to offer important comparative insights. The intriguing absence of China from the ongoing comparative debate is mainly due to the paucity of available data. To bridge this critical gap, we have successfully deployed state-of-the-art data mining techniques, identifying all (over 30,000) resolutions on material RPTs entered into by A-share companies listed on the mainboards of China’s official Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges with their controllers during the period of 2015–2019. We have also extracted data on the MOM votes cast by disinterested shareholders on these controller RPT resolutions. The proprietary dataset ensuing from our multiple-year endeavours is the first of its kind, and it offers fresh empirical insights that inform the current comparative discourse.

Our contributions are mainly twofold. First, we present the first data-driven evidence of how the Chinese MOM regime (which seems to have been inspired by the UK model) has exerted a profound influence in both frequency and magnitude on the world’s second-largest securities markets. We demonstrate, among other things, that controller RPT resolutions are more prevalent in the Chinese listed sector than in its European counterparts, and that dissension by Chinese disinterested shareholders is at a lower level than that witnessed in Europe (including the UK). More significantly, we empirically show that, somewhat counterintuitively, some powerful constituents in the Chinese listed sector – firms that are state-owned, that are group-affiliated, that have higher degrees of concentrated ownership, and that are larger in size – are more likely to be “caught” and “bitten” by Chinese MOM rules. Our second contribution is more theory-motivated. We demonstrate that received wisdom on the MOM, most notably in comparative corporate law and law and economics discourses, albeit offering powerful analytical tools, is unable to capture the full nuances of the case of China. We exploit a path dependence approach, highlighting the roles of the initial condition, as well as the rent-seeking and efficiency considerations, that help to explain the persistence of the Chinese MOM regime. It has been argued that the opposition by some EU member states to the adoption of the MOM is misplaced. If so, our analysis of the case of China brings a fresh perspective to the debate, and perhaps strengthens the case for a reconsideration in the capitals of Europe of the arguments for and against the MOM.

Keywords: related party transactions, majoirty of the minorty rule, China, empirical

Suggested Citation:

Xi, Chao, Related Party Transactions and the Majority-of-the-Minority Rule: Data-Driven Evidence from China and Implications for Europe (April 22, 2023). Chao Xi, ‘Related Party Transactions and the Majority-of-the-Minority Rule: Data-Driven Evidence from China and Implications for Europe’ Journal of Business Law ‘ [2023: Issue 4] pp. 309-336, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4487830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Disclosure Measures, Article , volume 62 , issue 4
Disclosure Measures, Article , volume 62 , issue 4
IAS , volume 28
Chao Xi , Yugang Chen
Does Regulatory Reform of Cumulative Voting Promote a More Balanced Power Distribution in the Boardroom?
Does Cumulative Voting Matter? The Case of China: An Empirical Assessment , volume 15 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,630
RANK
289,981
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies