Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pay for Prudence

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-124

82 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2023

Salman Arif

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Yadav Gopalan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

We provide the first evidence that prudential principles shape bankers’ executive compensation, a phenomenon we call “pay for prudence” (PfP). We conjecture that PfP incentivizes bankers to balance shareholders’ preference for risk with regulators’ preference for prudence. Although PfP terms are often used in bank compensation contracts, we find that the use of detailed and concrete PfP terms are positively associated with equity incentives for risk-taking. Furthermore, detailed and concrete PfP terms are associated with lower tail risk, fewer bad loans, and lower likelihood of regulatory downgrades. While we do not find evidence that PfP is associated with lower profitability, PfP is associated with more diversified loan portfolios and reduced exposure to real estate. Our results shed light on a new dimension of bankers’ pay and suggest that PfP-based incentives complement widely studied equity-based incentives for risk-taking by acting as guard rails that guide managers’ pursuit of investment opportunities.

Keywords: Incentives, Compensation, Financial Institutions, Prudential Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Arif, Salman and Donovan, John and Gopalan, Yadav and Morris, Arthur, Pay for Prudence (June 22, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-124, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4488650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Admati , M Hellwig
The bankers' new clothes Posted: 2014
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
B Akins , J Bitting , D De Angelis , M Gaulin
The salience of creditors' interests and CEO compensation Posted: 2019
D Anantharaman , V Fang , G Gong
Inside debt and the design of corporate debt contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2014
Load more
3 Citations
Yadav Gopalan , Joao Granja
How (In)active was Bank Supervision During the 2022 Monetary Tightening?
University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2023-130 · 87 Pages · Posted: 2 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 19 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 445
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Salman Arif , Robert M. Bushman , John Donovan , Yadav Gopalan
Grading bank managers: governance and performance implications of managerial ratings
51 Pages · Posted: 27 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 183
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Isarin Durongkadej , Yan Wendy Wu
Bank Uninsured Deposits, CEO Compensation, and Regulations
55 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 1 Oct 2025 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
411,549
3 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies