Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data Analytics and Management Forecasting Behavior

Forthcoming at Accounting Horizons

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 19 Jul 2023

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Na Li

York University, Canada; York University

Tharindra Ranasinghe

American University

Date Written: May 23, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the use of big data analytics by firms has a spillover effect on management forecasting behavior. Insights provided by big data could potentially improve firms’ ability to forecast earnings (supply channel) and investor demand for earnings information is likely higher for firms engaging in data analytics (demand channel). Using a text-based measure of firms’ commitments to and usage of big data analytics, we find that big data analytics usage is positively associated with the propensity to issue management earnings forecasts. Consistent with the “supply channel” explanation, we find that big data analytics usage is positively associated with management forecast accuracy as well. Also, supporting the “demand channel” explanation, we find that big data analytics usage is associated with greater analyst following. Our findings of improved disclosure following commitments to big data analytics highlight a potentially unintended benefit of the big data revolution.

Keywords: Big data, data analytics, management forecasts, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M15, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Beng Wee and Li, Na and Li, Na and Ranasinghe, Tharindra, Big Data Analytics and Management Forecasting Behavior (May 23, 2023). Forthcoming at Accounting Horizons, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4488722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Liquidity and stock returns
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 43 - 48 Posted: 1986
L Bamber , Y Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
S V Brown , J W Tucker
Large-sample evidence on firms' year-over-year MD&A modifications
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 346 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,383
RANK
234,143
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies