Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Temporary Filing Extensions, Reporting Quality and the Allocation of Public Resources during a Crisis

59 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2023 Last revised: 24 May 2025

Bruno Buchetti

University of Padua - Department of Economics and Management ; European Central Bank (ECB)

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Mircea Epure

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; Barcelona School of Economics; UPF Barcelona School of Management

Amedeo Pugliese

University of Padova - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 23, 2023

Abstract

This study examines how extending financial reporting deadlines during economic crises affects corporate transparency and the allocation of public resources. We exploit an unexpected regulatory extension granted by the Italian government for FY2019 filings at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Leveraging a novel and comprehensive dataset covering a large and representative sample of privately held Italian SMEs, we provide analyses of how delayed filings influenced firms' access to public guaranteed loans (PGLs) and subsidies. Our findings suggest that firms taking advantage of the extended filing deadline (“late filers”) secured more PGLs and subsidies by strategically managing their FY2019 financial statements to meet subsidy eligibility criteria. This behavior is particularly pronounced among late filers in industries heavily reliant on government relief, and late filers whose pre-COVID-19 cost structures incentivized accounting manipulation. Additionally, we observe that firms exploiting the filing extension displayed similar or even weaker subsequent growth relative to early filers and firms that did not utilize the extension. Our results suggest that crisis-induced reporting deadline extensions can compromise financial transparency and potentially result in suboptimal allocation of public resources.

Keywords: timeliness, accounting policy, government subsidies, crisis, guaranteed loans

JEL Classification: M48, G21, G38

Suggested Citation:

Buchetti, Bruno and De George, Emmanuel T. and Epure, Mircea and Pugliese, Amedeo, Temporary Filing Extensions, Reporting Quality and the Allocation of Public Resources during a Crisis (June 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4489498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4489498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
V V Acharya , S Steffen
The risk of being a fallen angel and the corporate dash for cash in the midst of COVID
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
F Allen , E Carletti
The role of liquidity in financial crises
Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium Posted: 2008
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
U Atz , M Bonacchi , I Guttman
Going Dark: Incentives for Private Firms' Strategic Nondisclosure
SSRN 4325834 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Massimiliano Bonacchi , Christine A. Botosan , Dhananjay Nanda , Amedeo Pugliese
Governance mechanisms, accounting regulation, and corporate disclosure in the aftermath of Covid‐19: Novel research questions and methodological opportunities
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 786 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,837
RANK
319,999
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies