Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Perspectives, Creativity, and Financial Performance in Vietnamese SMEs
Heliyon

19 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2023 Publication Status: Published

NND Phuong

Vietnam National University - Ho Chi Minh City (VNU-HCM)

Khuong Mai Ngoc

Vietnam National University - Ho Chi Minh City (VNU-HCM)

Thu-Hang Le

Vietnam National University - Ho Chi Minh City (VNU-HCM)

Abstract

This study examines the relationships between the inside-out and outside-in perspectives of strategists, organizational creativity, and financial performance in Vietnamese small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Based on the resource-based view and dynamic capabilities view, we collected cross-sectional data from 382 managers at all levels of Vietnamese SMEs. The study employed partial least squares structural equation modeling. The findings confirm that the inside-out perspective positively affects organizational creativity but has a negative impact on financial performance. Conversely, the outside-in perspective positively affects both organizational creativity and financial performance. Additionally, the study reveals that organizational creativity positively affects financial performance and acts as a mediator between both perspectives and financial performance. Thus, the study suggests that SMEs can benefit from adopting an outside-in perspective to enhance both their organizational creativity and financial performance. Overall, the study contributes to the literature on the cognitive school of strategic management in SMEs.

Keywords: Resource-based view, dynamic capabilities view, inside-out perspective, outside-in perspective, organizational creativity, and financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Phuong, NND and Mai Ngoc, Khuong and Le, Thu-Hang, Strategic Perspectives, Creativity, and Financial Performance in Vietnamese SMEs. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4490281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4490281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
I Alnawas , Abu Farha , A
Strategic orientations and capabilities' effect on SMEs' performance
Marketing Intelligence & Planning , volume 38 , p. 829 - 845 Posted: 2020
D J Rukstad , D Collis
Can you say what your strategy is
Harv Bus Rev , volume 86 Posted: 2008
M Yrjölä , H Kuusela , K Neilimo , H Saarijärvi
Inside-out and outside-in mental models: a top executive perspective
European Business Review , volume 30 , p. 529 - 553 Posted: 2018
D Miller , R Eisenstat , N Foote
Strategy from the inside out: Building capabilitycreating organizations
Calif Manage Rev , volume 44 , p. 37 - 54 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies