Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Visual Information and AI Divide: Evidence from Corporate Executive Presentations

61 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Yichen Cheng

Georgia State University

Meng Wang

University of South Florida - Muma College of Business

Yusen Xia

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Baozhong Yang

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Date Written: November 17, 2022

Abstract

This paper constructs and studies a novel data set comprised of corporate executive presentations, which provide unique visual information about firms' products and operations. We explore the value of visual information in presentations and examine how market participants respond to such information. We extract visual features from presentation images with large image models and find not all images have the same implications for firm value. Forward-looking operational information is associated with higher short-term abnormal returns and long-term operational performance while other types of images are not. We also examine whether the rise of alternative big data and AI creates a potential AI divide among market participants. We find AI-equipped institutional investors respond strongly to visual signals, whereas retail investors and traditional institutional investors face marginalization on the playing field in the age of AI and big data.

Keywords: JEL Classification: D83, G12, G14, G23, G30 Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, FinTech, Corporate Presentation, Image Analysis, Textual Analysis, Information and Market Efficiency, Institutional Investors, Investment

JEL Classification: D83, G12, G14, G23, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Cheng, Yichen and Wang, Meng and Xia, Yusen and Yang, Baozhong, Visual Information and AI Divide: Evidence from Corporate Executive Presentations (November 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4490834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4490834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
S Abis
Man vs. machine: Quantitative and discretionary equity management
Machine: Quantitative and Discretionary Equity Management Posted: 2020-10-23
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production Posted: 2020
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Yi Zhou
Predicting CDS Spreads and Stock Returns with Weather Risk: A Study Utilizing Nlp/Llm and Ai Measures
24-193 · 54 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2024 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,383
RANK
34,905
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies