Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Green Bonds: Market Response and Corporate Response

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

47 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2023 Last revised: 13 Jul 2023

Sanjai Bhagat

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Finance

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: June 27, 2023

Abstract

We analyze the stock market response to a comprehensive international sample of 1,560 corporate green bond announcements between January 2013 and January 2022. We do not find any significant market response to these green bond announcements. We conduct a battery of tests to check the robustness of this result, including a focus on the power of event study methodology as it relates to event window length. Also, we find that in the year of the green bond announcements, the abnormal operating performance of these announcing firms is significantly negative, which is consistent with the argument that managers of these firms are using the green bond announcements as a cover for their poor business performance.

Keywords: ESG, green bonds, greenwashing, stakeholder, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, CSR

JEL Classification: G00, G30, G32, L21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Bhagat, Sanjai and Yoon, Aaron, Corporate Green Bonds: Market Response and Corporate Response (June 27, 2023). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4492883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4492883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Jitendra Aswani , Aneesh Raghunandan , Shivaram Rajgopal
Are Carbon Emissions Associated with Stock Returns?
Columbia Business School Research Paper Posted: 2022-05-13
Malcolm Baker , Daniel Bergstresser , George Serafeim , Jeffrey Wurgler
The pricing and ownership of U.S. green bonds , volume 14 Posted: 2022
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting abnormal operating performance: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1996
L A Bebchuk , R Tallarita
The illusory promise of stakeholder governance
Cornell Law Review , volume 106 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
632
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,208
RANK
96,501
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies