Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Architecture for General-purpose Financial Reporting – The Development of ISSB Sustainability Disclosure Standards

29 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2023

Alan Teixeira

Independent

Date Written: June 26, 2023

Abstract

In 2023 the IFRS Foundation published its first two IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards. Those standards were guided by an architecture, or blueprint, that I developed for a comprehensive set of reporting requirements that would ensure that sustainability-related disclosures would become part of mainstream financial reporting. My architecture was developed to be consistent with the architecture for IFRS Accounting Standards, emphasising the connections between sustainability information and the financial statements. Although the products of this architecture, the standards, are in the public domain the architecture itself has not been documented or published previously. The purpose of this paper is to fill that gap, describing the architecture, how it was developed and what influenced it. The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) followed many, but not all, of the design principles.

Keywords: ISSB, IASB, Sustainability, IFRS, Financial Reporting, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: G39, M41, M48, Q39, Q49, Q54, Q56, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Teixeira, Alan, An Architecture for General-purpose Financial Reporting – The Development of ISSB Sustainability Disclosure Standards (June 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4492082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4492082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R Barker , R Eccles
Should FASB and IASB be Responsible for Setting Standards for Nonfinancial Information? Retrieved from Posted: 2018
R Barker , T Kasim ; Macmillan Barker , R , A Teixeira , C Villiers , P.-C K Hsiao , W Maroun
Critical reflections on the development of integrated reporting -Are Integrated Reporting and IFRS competing frameworks
Integrated Reporting: Precursor of a Paradigm Shift in Corporate Reporting? Integrated Reporting: A New Accounting Disclosure , p. 81 - 108 Posted: 2016
R Barker , A Teixeira
Gaps in the Conceptual Framework
Accounting in Europe , volume 15 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2018
C De Villiers , L Rinaldi , J Unerman
Integrated reporting: insights, gaps and an agenda for future research
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 1042 - 1067 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,629
RANK
107,499
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies