Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Managers’ Understanding of Macroeconomic News, Competitor Influence, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Consumer Sentiment News

Posted: 28 Jun 2023 Last revised: 5 Nov 2024

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Lian Fen Lee

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Benda Yin

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 27, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the association between managers’ failure to incorporate macroeconomic news and firm performance, with a focus on the role of competitors. Using the extent to which management revenue forecast errors reflect U.S. consumer sentiment news to capture managers’ failure to incorporate consumer sentiment, we find an asymmetric association between this failure and firm performance. When firms underestimate consumer demand and underproduce, failure to incorporate consumer sentiment is associated with worse performance. However, when firms overestimate demand and overproduce, there is no association. These results are consistent with competitors reacting differently to underproduction and overproduction, worsening firm performance in the case of underproduction but not necessarily in overproduction. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the negative association between managerial failure to incorporate consumer sentiment and firm performance is mainly present when U.S. consumer sentiment is important to the firm and competitive pressure is heightened, such as when there is greater product similarity between the firm and its competitors. Overall, our findings suggest that the association between management forecast errors stemming from failure to understand macroeconomic information and firm performance is nuanced and depends on competitors’ strategic actions. 

Keywords: management forecasts, revenue forecasts, macroeconomic news, consumer sentiment, competition.

JEL Classification: M41, D83, G31

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Lee, Lian Fen and Yin, Benda,

Managers’ Understanding of Macroeconomic News, Competitor Influence, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Consumer Sentiment News

(June 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4493320
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies