Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Private Company Discount Fully Compensate for the Information Risk? Evidence from Acquisition Outcomes

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2024/64/ACC

50 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2023 Last revised: 14 Nov 2024

Dan Givoly

Pennsylvania State University, Smeal College of Business

Songyi Han

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH)

Sharon P. Katz

INSEAD

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

Past research suggests that acquisitions of private firms tend to have more positive outcomes than those of publicly listed firms due to  a price discount from either illiquidity or higher information risk. In this study, we separate the two components by analyzing the outcomes of acquisitions of a hybrid group of firms that are privately owned yet subject to the same reporting and disclosure requirements of publicly traded firms (hereafter, ‘quasi-private’ firms). Since neither quasi-private nor private firms have liquid equity, the difference between their acquisition outcomes (after controlling for other factors) arises from the information risk discount. After controlling further for contractual arrangements designed to mitigate information risk such as earnouts or structuring the deal as a stock exchange, we find that acquiring quasi-private firms yields better outcomes than private firms. This result suggests that the contractual arrangements used by acquirers of private firms to mitigate the higher information risk do not fully compensate for it. We also find that the requirement that acquirers disclose the financial statements of the acquired firm after the significant acquisition announcement is not a substitute for the availability of regulated financial reporting and disclosure on acquired firms throughout their history. 

Keywords: Merger and acquisition, M&A, Private company discount, liquidity discount, information risk, financial reporting, corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Givoly, Dan and Han, Songyi and Katz, Sharon P., Does the Private Company Discount Fully Compensate for the Information Risk? Evidence from Acquisition Outcomes (May 23, 2024). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2024/64/ACC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4494684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4494684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
J. Accounting Res , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
I Ben-David , U Bhattacharya , S E Jacobsen
Do acquirer announcement returns reflect value creation? Fisher College of Business, Charles A Posted: 2020
S J Brown , J B Warner
Using daily stock returns: The case of event studies
J. Financial Econom , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 1985
B Cadman , R Carrizosa , L Faurel
Economic determinants and information environment effects of earnouts: New insights from SFAS 141 (R)
J. Accounting Res , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 74 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
317,057
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies