Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Returns, Industry Concentration and Firm Expenditure Decisions

Journal of Economics and Business, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023 Last revised: 15 May 2024

Sheeja Sivaprasad

University of Westminster

Dzidziso Samuel Kamuriwo

City University London

Issam Malki

University of Westminster

Yaz Gulnur Muradoglu

University of Illinois Springfield

Date Written: June 28, 2023

Abstract

We build on agency and strategy literature to investigate and explain whether and how changes in stock returns are related to critical managerial expenditure decisions by firms that are consistent and supportive of the firm’s strategy in different industry concentrations. Unlike previous work, our study considers the impact of an extended list of managerial expenditure decisions in the different industry concentration settings. Our research employs a rich panel of firms listed on the UK London Stock Exchange. We find strong support for our postulations. Key managerial expenditure decisions we considered, leverage, inventories turnover, R&D intensity, SGA and fixed asset additions have a differential impact depending on the industry concentration. Our findings add to our understanding of the effect of managerial agency and its integration to strategy on firm stock returns. Managerial expenditure decisions are both constrained by the competitive context as well as strategic logic – both of which impact stock returns. Our study helps managers to prioritize consequential expenditure decisions in different competitive contexts – a key resource for not only weathering crisis periods but optimizing returns to shareholders

Keywords: Industry Concentration, Leverage, Inventories, R&D, Firm Expense Structure, Fixed Asset Additions, Firm Value

JEL Classification: G10, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Sivaprasad, Sheeja and Kamuriwo, Dzidziso Samuel and Malki, Issam and Muradoglu, Yaz Gulnur, Stock Returns, Industry Concentration and Firm Expenditure Decisions (June 28, 2023). Journal of Economics and Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4494330 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4494330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Almazan , C A Molina
Intra-industry capital structure dispersion
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 297 Posted: 2006
J Bain
Economies of Scale, Concentration and the Condition of Entry in Twenty Manufacturing Industries
American Economic Review , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 39 Posted: 1954
R M Banz
The relationship between return and market value of common stocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 1981
J Barney
Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
444,118
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies