Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumer Responses to the Revelation of Corporate Social Irresponsibility

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4496599

58 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 23 Dec 2023

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Anthony Joffre

University of Miami, School of Business Administration, Department of Accounting, Students

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Using micro-level data of US weekly brand-level sales, we examine end-consumer responses to public revelations of corporate social irresponsibility (CSI). Despite survey evidence that suggests end consumers care about CSI, we find that the vast majority of CSI revelations are not followed by changes in sales. It is only when we narrow our focus to a small number of highly visible CSI events that we find a 5.8% reduction in weekly brand-level sales over the four-week period following the event. This suggests that visibility plays a critical role in reducing end consumers’ awareness and integration costs with respect to CSI. While the direct consumer response is limited, it is likely that CSI events carry broader economic consequences beyond direct consumer responses. Consistent with this notion, we find that analysts reduce their long-term forecasts following the revelation of visible CSI events and discuss these issues in earnings conference calls. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of visibility in shaping consumer behavior towards CSI and suggest that the costs of highly-visible CSI events extend beyond immediate changes in end-consumer purchasing behavior.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG), Consumer behavior; Analyst forecasts

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41, M31

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and De George, Emmanuel T. and Joffre, Anthony and Macciocchi, Daniele, Consumer Responses to the Revelation of Corporate Social Irresponsibility (March 1, 2023). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4496599, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4496599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4496599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Posted: 2022
F Barigozzi , P Tedeschi
Credit markets with ethical banks and motivated borrowers
Review of Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 1281 - 1313 Posted: 2015
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
H S Bloom
Minimum detectable effects: A simple way to report the statistical power of experimental designs
Evaluation review , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 547 - 556 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
942
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,516
RANK
56,812
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies