Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Terrorist Attacks and Mass Shootings on Earnings Management

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 7 Jul 2023

Seda Oz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 6, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the role of salient events on accrual-based and real earnings management activities. For people using availability heuristics, the salience of an event may temporarily increase perceived risk even though the actual risk does not change, and individuals making decisions by availability heuristics are subsequently more likely to assign a higher probability to unrelated negative future events. I use terrorist attacks and mass shootings as salient events and conjecture that the negative effects of terrorist attacks and mass shootings spill over and lead to pessimistic risk assessments of financial reporting choices. The findings show a decrease in accrual-based and real earnings management for firms located in the impacted regions. The documented effects are driven by firms with high information asymmetry levels and pessimistic annual reports. Additional analysis reveals that affected firms decrease the readability of their annual reports, suggesting affected firms engage in a more complex narrative disclosure. The findings of this paper support the argument that managers exhibit a cognitive bias which affects their financial reporting choices.

Keywords: accruals management, discretionary accruals, earnings management, real earnings management, terrorist attacks, mass shootings, heuristics, salient events, readability

JEL Classification: D83, G14, G41, M14, M40, M41, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Oz, Seda, The Impact of Terrorist Attacks and Mass Shootings on Earnings Management (July 6, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders , volume 21 , p. 591 - 643 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
J Ball
Does PTSD Ever Go Away? Dealing With PTSD Posted: 2019-09-24
D D Baumann , J H Sims
Flood insurance: Some determinants of adoption
Economic Geography , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 196 Posted: 1978
Load more
1 Citations
Hai Zhang , Wenjia Zhang
Facial expression sentiment in videos and stock returns
34 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 19 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 295
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
620
RANK
592,557
1 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies