Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clawback Adoptions and Management Earnings Forecasts

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Simon Fung

Deakin University

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: July 2, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relation between voluntary clawback adoptions in the US and firms’ propensity to issue earnings forecasts and the frequency of such forecasts. We find that clawback adoptions are followed by an increase in the likelihood and frequency of managers issuing earnings forecasts. Further, we find this relation to hold only for firms with an actual increase in financial reporting quality following clawback adoption. We also observe a greater increase in the likelihood and frequency of management forecasts in the post-adoption period among adopters having higher ex-ante information asymmetry. Our results suggest that the improved financial reporting quality following clawback adoptions increases the verifiability (and credibility) of earnings forecasts making them more likely to be used. Our findings are of potential interest to regulators and investors in the US (and elsewhere) interested in the outcomes associated with clawback adoptions for firms’ information environment. In particular, now that clawback adoptions are mandatory (SEC 2022) our findings suggest that the benefits associated with clawback adoptions may be expected only for a subset of (rather than all) companies subject to the mandate.

Keywords: Clawback adoptions, actual improvement in financial reporting quality, management earnings forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Raman, K. K. and Sun, Lili and Xu, Li, Clawback Adoptions and Management Earnings Forecasts (July 2, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497906
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies