Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Openness

64 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 3 Jun 2025

Joshua Della Vedova

The University of San Diego - Knauss School of Business

Stephan Siegel

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; CESifo

Mitch Warachka

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the impact of cultural openness toward new experiences on the economic vitality of U.S. cities. Using the frequency of new music played by local radio stations as a proxy for openness, we document significant variation in openness across U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs). MSAs with higher openness are more likely to adopt new products and have a greater number of new and successful ventures, a larger proportion of growth firms, and higher firm valuations. The positive relationship between openness and firm value is stronger for consumer-oriented and younger firms. Our study highlights the significant role of cultural characteristics in regional development and provides insights into how MSA-level openness relates to MSA-level value creation.

Keywords: Value Creation, Culture, Openness, First-Mover Advantage

Suggested Citation:

Della Vedova, Joshua and Siegel, Stephan and Warachka, Mitch, The Value of Openness (July 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4497451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J A Ahlkvist
Programming philosophies and the rationalization of music radio
Media, Culture, and Society , volume 23 , p. 339 - 358 Posted: 2001
A Alesina , E La Ferrara
Ethnic diversity and economic performance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 43 , p. 762 - 800 Posted: 2005
K Arrow
The economic implications of learning by doing
Review of Economic Studies , volume 29 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 1962
S Baker , B Baugh , M Sammon
Customer churn and intangible capital
Journal of the Political Economy Macroeconomics , volume 1 , p. 447 - 505 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
279,521
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies