Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecasts and Employee Mental Health

45 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2023 Last revised: 13 Sep 2025

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Yuuki Ohta

Senshu University; Shizuoka Sangyo University

Date Written: January 06, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether management earnings forecasts influence employee mental health. We hypothesize that higher management forecasts increase the number of employee resignations related to mental health issues. Using regression analysis based on 1,953 firm-year observations from Japanese listed firms, we find that firms with higher initial management forecasts experience a higher number of mental health-related resignations. The results remain robust when using alternative proxies based on the target difficulty literature. Moreover, we find that this relationship is strengthened by the presence of a substantial number of overworked employees and the frequency and magnitude of management forecast revisions and is mitigated by the presence of labor unions. Our findings suggest the importance of understanding how management forecasting practices impact employee mental health, shedding light on a significant yet often overlooked social and organizational cost that remains invisible to investors and other stakeholders.

Note:
Funding Information: Makoto Kuroki acknowledges the financial support from the Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (21H00762) from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS).

Conflict of Interests: None.


Keywords: Management earnings forecast, JD-R theory, mental health, ESG investment

JEL Classification: G1, J38, I18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto and Ohta, Yuuki, Management Forecasts and Employee Mental Health (January 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4497637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
M C Arnold , M Artz
Target difficulty, target flexibility, and firm performance: Evidence from business units' targets. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 40 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2015
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , issue 2 , p. 642 - 664 Posted: 2022
A B Bakker , E Demerouti
Job demands-resources theory: Taking stock and looking forward
Journal of Occupational Health Psychology , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 273 - 285 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,111
RANK
464,511
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies