Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Reputational Damage to Credit Rating Agencies

Indian School of Business WP

46 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Apoorv Gogar

Indian School of Business

Hariom Manchiraju

Indian School of Business

Shyam V. Sunder

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 26, 2023

Abstract

Our study documents the spillover costs arising from the loss of reputation for credit rating
agencies (CRAs). Credit ratings are essential for a well-functioning debt market, and the integrity
of these ratings depends on the reputation of the CRAs. Using data from the unexpected default
by AAA-rated ILFS, a large Indian infrastructure finance firm, in what was dubbed “India’s
Lehman moment” and where several major CRAs suffered reputation damage, we shed light on
(a) the externalities from such a reputational loss for debt issuers, and (b) CRA response to such
reputation loss. Unlike in most prior studies, our setting offers a sharper identification due to the
presence of both tainted and untainted CRAs, i.e., CRAs that rated ILFS debt and those that did
not. We find that (i) around the dates of the ILFS default, there is a negative spillover effect on
issuers rated by the tainted CRAs, (ii) the tainted CRAs tighten their ratings after this default crisis,
and (iii) such an improvement in the quality of ratings helps the tainted CRAs to hold on to their
market shares. Collectively, these findings provide useful empirical evidence on the capital market
impact of damage to CRAs’ reputations.

Keywords: Credit ratings, Credit rating agencies, Reputation, Information intermediaries, Spillover

JEL Classification: G24, L14, D62, G14, G20

Suggested Citation:

Gogar, Apoorv and Manchiraju, Hariom and Sunder, Shyam, Economic Consequences of Reputational Damage to Credit Rating Agencies (June 26, 2023). Indian School of Business WP, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4498235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4498235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
K E Adajania
IL&FS crisis: How real is the risk in debt funds? mint Posted: 2018
A Akhigbe , J Madura
Industry Signals Relayed by Corporate Earnings Restatements
Financial Review , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 569 - 589 Posted: 2008
K.-H Bae , H Driss , G S Roberts
Do credit rating agencies inflate their ratings? A review
Journal of Financial Transformation Posted: 2017
R P Baghai , B Becker
Non-rating revenue and conflicts of interest
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 112 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
373,551
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies