Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation and Incentive Pay Sensitivity Prior to CEO Turnover: Evidence from US Firms
Heliyon

26 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2023 Publication Status: Published

Dmitriy Chulkov

Indiana University Kokomo - School of Business

John Barron

Purdue University - Department of Economics

Abstract

In this study, we examine the three components of executive compensation including salary, equity, and bonus pay over a CEO’s tenure for US publicly-traded firms. We confirm a positive and significant relationship between two separate measures of firm performance and incentive pay. We also identify significant differences between equity and bonus incentive compensation. We find that variables indicative of an increase in the likelihood of anticipated CEO turnover are associated with greater sensitivity of bonus compensation to changes in firm performance. Specifically, this pay-performance link is enhanced for CEOs who reach retirement age. Further, the sensitivity of bonus pay to firm performance is significantly greater when there is planned CEO turnover within a two-year window. We find no similar changes in pay-performance sensitivity for equity-based compensation or salary. These findings suggest that when a CEO’s departure is anticipated, firms increase bonus pay incentives for a CEO’s effort based on the firm’s concurrent performance to compensate for the reduction in the incentives that rely on the executive being employed long-term. The results provide a rationale for including bonus pay in the overall executive compensation package.

Keywords: Executive compensation, CEO turnover, Incentive pay, Planned succession, Financial economics

Suggested Citation:

Chulkov, Dmitriy and Barron, John M., Executive Compensation and Incentive Pay Sensitivity Prior to CEO Turnover: Evidence from US Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4498702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4498702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
N Balafas , C Florackis
CEO compensation and future shareholder returns: Evidence from the London Stock Exchange
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 27 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2014
J Barron , D Chulkov , G Waddell
Top management team turnover, CEO succession type, and strategic change
Journal of Business Research , volume 64 , issue 8 , p. 904 - 910 Posted: 2011
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
B Bennett , J Bettis , R Gopalan , T Milbourn
Compensation goals and firm performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 307 - 330 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies