Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value-based Management Sophistication and Earnings Management

56 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2023 Last revised: 20 Aug 2025

Sven Hörner

University of Bayreuth

Friedrich Sommer

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

Financial accounting shall enable effective monitoring and control but can be subject to self-serving behavior by management, i.e., earnings management. Value-based management (VBM) systems can counteract this behavior by mitigating agency problems and increasing shareholder value through reduced conflicts of interest and information asymmetries. Drawing on five elements of VBM implementation, we posit that VBM sophistication is negatively associated with accrual-based earnings management and that this relation is more pronounced with a higher proportion of institutional investors. Our predictions are supported via a sample of the largest European listed companies. Additional analyses indicate that value-based compensation drives the interaction effect, whereas the main effect of VBM on earnings management predominantly builds on the adoption of a value-based metric. Thus, the effectiveness of VBM in counteracting agency costs depends on its sophistication and the ownership structures of firms. Our findings indicate that internal management control systems affect external financial accounting earnings.

Keywords: value-based management, earnings management, agency theory, shareholder-value orientation

Suggested Citation:

Hörner, Sven and Sommer, Friedrich, Value-based Management Sophistication and Earnings Management (May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4498375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4498375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , P Kroos
Organization identity and earnings manipulation
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 58 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , G Jackson
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies, and complementarities
Organization Science , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
H Ashbaugh , T D Warfield
Audits as a corporate governance mechanism: Evidence from the German market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
420,501
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies