Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing Informativeness through Discretion in Earnout Fair Values

52 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2023 Last revised: 18 Aug 2023

Rita Gunn

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Date Written: August 17, 2023

Abstract

I investigate the fair values estimated for the earnout liability. I find that managerial discretion in the measurement and timing of the quarterly fair value adjustments results in smoother and more informative earnings. ASC 805 requires acquirers to fair value the earnout liability on the date of transaction close and then adjust the liability quarterly for changes in the fair value until resolution. My results show that, on average, managers overestimate the fair value of the earnout liability at the close of the transaction providing themselves financial flexibility over the life of the earnout. Subsequently, managers smooth earnings by making quarterly adjustments to the earnout liability. These smoother earnings are more predictive of future cash flows than the earnings excluding the earnout adjustment. In addition, the market values the earnout adjustments.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Contingent Consideration, Earnout, Earnings Management, Fair Value

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Rita, Increasing Informativeness through Discretion in Earnout Fair Values (August 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4499121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4499121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
K D Allee , D D Wangerin
Auditor monitoring and verification in financial contracts: evidence from earnouts and SFAS 141(R)
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1629 - 1664 Posted: 2018
B Baik , K Gunny , B Jung , & D Park
Income smoothing through R&D management and earnings informativeness
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 49 Posted: 2022
M Barth , D Cram , & K Nelson
Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
M Barth , D Taylor
In defense of fair value: weighing the evidence on earnings management and asset securitizations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 26 - 33 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
RANK
456,571
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies