Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Styles of Verification and the Pursuit of Organisational Repair: The Case of Social Impact

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2023.101478

Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Sarah Adams

College of Business and Economics, Australian National University

Matthew Hall

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Xinning Xiao

Monash University - Department of Accounting; Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 5, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines how different varieties of verification can support the pursuit of organisational repair. We present data from a detailed field study of the setting of social impact, drawing on a variety of practitioner perspectives on the purpose, value, and practice of verification. Taking the distinction between a direct and indirect mode of intervention as our starting point, we theorise the differences between a financial audit style of verification and what we label an ‘experiential’ style of verification. We show that an experiential style reconceptualises verification as playing a role in learning about and improving on the delivery of social impact within organisations rather than a primary concern with assuaging external report users. Experiential verification values the situated knowledge of those deeply immersed in social impact above the attributes of independence, reputation or credentialled expertise, and is predicated on providing unmediated access to the subject of verification rather than verifying a measurable reality. A focus on verification for organisational repair has implications for whose wisdom counts, and points to the possibility of ‘new verification spaces’ focused on caretaking and delivering the public good rather than compliance.

Keywords: Auditability Assurance Organisational repair Social impact Verification

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M421, L31, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Sarah and Hall, Matthew and Xiao, Xinning and Xiao, Xinning, Styles of Verification and the Pursuit of Organisational Repair: The Case of Social Impact (July 5, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2023.101478, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4500898
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies