Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder value implications of supply chain ESG: Evidence from negative incidents

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2023 Last revised: 21 Nov 2024

Xuanpu Lin

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Haoran Zhu

Southern University of Science and Technology; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

Using a novel measure that captures negative ESG incidents at both listed and private suppliers,  we provide large-scale evidence on the value implications of supply chain ESG. We find that firms with fewer supply chain ESG incidents exhibit higher future accounting performance and that this effect is stronger in the presence of more conscious customers and vulnerable supply chains. We also find that firms with robust supply chain ESG exhibit higher future stock returns and that this effect is more pronounced when information frictions are higher, which suggests that it takes time for the market to understand the value implications of supply chain ESG. Overall, we highlight the benefits of managing supply chain ESG and the decision usefulness of the related information. 

Keywords: Supply Chain ESG, Accounting Performance, Stock Returns, Information Friction

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Xuanpu and She, Guoman and Yoon, Aaron and Zhu, Haoran, Shareholder value implications of supply chain ESG: Evidence from negative incidents (June 30, 2023). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4500888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4500888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
J W Bae , R Elkamhi , M Simutin
The best of both worlds: Accessing emerging economies via developed markets
The Journal of Finance , volume 74 , issue 5 , p. 2579 - 2617 Posted: 2019
K H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
J N Barrot , J Sauvagnat
Input specificity and the propagation of idiosyncratic shocks in production networks
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 3 , p. 1543 - 1592 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,418
RANK
24,224
1 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies