Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Influence of Competition and Compensation on Hospital Quality Vary with Ownership Type?

57 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2023

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

Leslie Eldenburg

University of Arizona

Theodore H. Goodman

Purdue University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

Recently, patients, insurers, and regulators have increasingly focused on hospital quality (the inverse of patient mortality) in the U.S. Using California hospital data from 2006 through 2020, we find evidence that the effects of compensation and competition on hospital quality differ by ownership type. Executive compensation is positively associated with quality in for-profit hospitals but is not associated with that of nonprofit hospitals, suggesting for-profit hospitals are more likely to use higher levels of compensation to attract managers with higher ability whereas the utility function for nonprofit managers may be multi-dimensional. Looking within the nonprofit hospital group, we observe that competition is more positively associated with quality for religious nonprofits relative to secular nonprofits, suggesting that competition provides more monitoring for religious hospitals. Taken together, our results suggest that the drivers of quality vary across hospitals in ways consistent with differences in constraints and objectives across ownership types. Our findings are important for regulators seeking to incentivize higher quality hospital care. For example, Medicare has incorporated quality measures into its new hospital reimbursement scheme (VBP or Value Based Purchasing) to incentivize quality, our results suggest that regulators should consider differences across ownership types when evaluating the best ways to incentivize hospital quality.

Note:
Funding Information: This is research conducted with public data. No funding was ever provided.

Conflict of Interests: There’s no competing interest.


Keywords: Quality performance, competition, compensation, hospital quality monitoring

JEL Classification: I11, L21, L33, M11, M12

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linda H. and Eldenburg, Leslie G. and Goodman, Theodore H., Does the Influence of Competition and Compensation on Hospital Quality Vary with Ownership Type? (June 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4501612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4501612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
567
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies