Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG in the Top 100 US Private Equity Firms

Posted: 17 Jul 2023 Last revised: 4 Oct 2023

Garen Markarian

HEC - University of Lausanne

Calvin Rakotobe

Université de Lausanne

Alexander Semionov

HEC - University of Lausanne

Date Written: July 7, 2023

Abstract

We look at the ESG practices of the world’s largest private equity firms, representing more than $1.5 trillion of committed capital and directly employing 12 million individuals. We find that the ESG practices, and their corresponding disclosures, significantly lag behind that of publicly traded industrial firms. Roughly 58% of the top private equity firms disclose zero information about their ESG practices, and two-thirds of those that disclose, have sparsely populated and uninformative ESG information. Although 39% of firms have activities related to the S-dimension of ESG, only 19% of firms have at least 10% women on their board or as top executives. We create a comprehensive ESG score, including sub-scores for E, S, and G. Buyout funds, the number of PE employees, and listing status, positively load on our ESG score. IRRs do not predict ESG scores overall, but are related to higher social scores. As evidence of greenwashing, 71% of firms are signatories to ESG initiatives that are easy to implement and are subject to lower accountability, including buyout and publicly held funds. On the other hand, 15% of firms are signatories into high quality ESG frameworks, and their commitment is reflected by an increased workforce.

Keywords: Private Equity, Risk, ESG, Greenwashing, Net-Zero, Frameworks, Environmental, Social, Governance

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Markarian, Garen and Rakotobe, Calvin and Semionov, Alexander, ESG in the Top 100 US Private Equity Firms (July 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4503661 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4503661
 Not Available for Download
70 References
Who buys the dirty energy assets public companies no longer want?
The Economist Posted: 2022-06
J K Abraham , M Olbert , F P Vasvari
ESG Disclosures in the Private Equity Industry
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial analysts journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
M Antoni , E Maug , S Obernberger
Private equity and human capital risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 3 , p. 634 - 657 Posted: 2019-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,736
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies