Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Personnel Training and Development in a Balanced Scorecard

30 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: July 8, 2023

Abstract

The article is generally theoretical in nature and is devoted to the consideration of the possibility of using the applied strategic analysis of personnel training and development developed by its author, based on the balanced scorecard component of the same name, in the process of studying the strategic aspects of training and development of the organization's personnel. The methodological basis of the study was the concept of a balanced scorecard by R. Kaplan and D. Norton and the concept of applied strategic analysis developed earlier by the author of this article. It is shown that the applied strategic analysis of personnel training and development involves a comparative assessment, diagnosis of deviations and forecasting of the values of the indicators of the personnel training and development component of the organization's balanced scorecard in the context of their strategic goals. It includes an analysis of the level of motivation of employees, the amount of authority delegated to them and the degree to which their personal goals correspond to corporate goals, and an analysis of the degree of empowerment of information systems, as well as an analysis of the quality of retraining and the level of development of the creative abilities of employees. Applied strategic analysis of personnel training and development begins with a comparative assessment of the values of performance indicators that characterize the level of motivation of employees, the amount of authority delegated to them and the degree of compliance of their personal goals with corporate goals, and ends with forecasting the values of factor indicators of the quality of retraining and the level of development of the creative abilities of employees. Its results can be used in the development of long-term, medium-term and short-term management decisions in the area of the organization's activities related to the training and development of personnel. The methodological tools for applied strategic analysis of personnel training and development include methods of absolute, relative and average values, comparison, grouping, graphical and tabular methods, correlation and regression analysis, factor analysis, cluster analysis and methods of expert assessments. The author comes to the conclusion that the applied strategic analysis of personnel training and development is a new and quite effective tool for studying the strategic aspects of an organization's activities related to personnel training and development, forming the analytical support for its strategic management in terms of personnel training and development in modern conditions.

Keywords: applied strategic analysis, balanced scorecard, training and development, personnel, management, organization

JEL Classification: L29, M12, M41, M53

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Analysis of Personnel Training and Development in a Balanced Scorecard (July 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4503973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4503973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
V I Barilenko
Kompleksniy analiz khozyaystvennoy deyatelnosti Posted: 2016
S A Boronenkova , M V Melnik
Kompleksniy economicheskiy analiz v upravlenii predpiyatiyem Posted: 2016
M G Brown
Beyond the Balanced Scorecard. Improving Business Intelligence with Analytics Posted: 2007
H R Friedag , W Schmidt
Balanced Scorecard: Mehr als ein Kennzahlensystem Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
697,608
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies