Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Executive Turnover and Loan Loss Provisions: Evidence from Japanese Regional Banks

62 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023

Masahiro Enomoto

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Yusuke Fukaya

J.F. Oberlin University

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

This study examines loan loss provisions following top executive turnovers in Japanese banks. The study differentiates between voluntary and forced turnover and inside and outside succession. The results show that incoming top executives, following forced turnover or outside succession, tend to reduce loan loss provisions in the second year of their tenure. This suggests that incoming top executives attempt to create a positive impression of their abilities by increasing earnings in the second year. This evidence differs from previous research showing “big bath” accounting in the first year. Additionally, outgoing top executives recognize greater loan loss provisions in the final year before outside succession. This study further shows that incoming top executives attempt to increase earnings following succession through gains and losses from security sales, commissions, and fees. In summary, we contribute to the bank’s earnings management literature by showing that income-increasing accrual-based and real earnings management are carried out in the early stages of top executive tenure.

Keywords: Top executive turnover, earnings management, loan loss provision

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Enomoto, Masahiro and Fukaya, Yusuke, Top Executive Turnover and Loan Loss Provisions: Evidence from Japanese Regional Banks (July 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4504970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4504970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management, and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 1999
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
M Aoki , H Patrick
The Japanese Main Bank System: Its Relevance for Developing and Transforming Economies Posted: 1994
A L Beatty , B Ke , K R Petroni
Earnings management to avoid earnings declines across publicly and privately held banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 570 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
RANK
687,436
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies