Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Consumers Vote With Their Feet in Response to Negative ESG News? Evidence From Consumer Foot Traffic to Retail Locations

74 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023

Svenja Dube

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Date Written: July 2023

Abstract

We examine whether retail consumers change their shopping behavior in response to firm-specific negative environmental, social, and governance (ESG) news. Using consumer foot traffic data, we provide evidence that negative ESG news affects consumer foot traffic negatively in U.S. counties where the population is more likely to be ESG-conscious. We find that consumer foot traffic declines in counties with higher income, education level, Democratic partisanship, and population density in the days following negative ESG news. We also find that these demographic groups have lower debit and credit card spending volumes after negative ESG news incidents. Our results are robust to alternative measures of county-level ESG-consciousness using responses to a climate change survey, Congress member voting scorecards, and U.S. Congress social capital index. Consumer reactions to negative ESG news also vary with the availability and importance of media sources as well as consumer loyalty. We find that consumers react negatively to negative ESG news when more local newspapers are available and when national or global media outlets cover the ESG news while consumer loyalty moderates this negative reaction. Overall, our results show that some consumers who are presumably more ESG-conscious react to ESG information. However, the economic magnitude appears to be relatively small even for ESG-conscious consumers.

Keywords: Consumers, ESG News, Foot Traffic, Demographics, Media, Consumer

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Dube, Svenja and Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Wang, Danye, Do Consumers Vote With Their Feet in Response to Negative ESG News? Evidence From Consumer Foot Traffic to Retail Locations (July 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4506950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Ansolabehere , S Kuriwaki
Congressional representation: Accountability from the constituent's perspective
American Journal of Political Science , volume 66 , p. 123 - 139 Posted: 2022
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax boycotts Posted: 2022
P Auger , T M Devinney
Do what consumers say matter? the misalignment of preferences with unconstrained ethical intentions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 76 , p. 361 - 383 Posted: 2007
Barron's
Trump-era rules made ESG investing harder. Biden is reversing them Posted: 2021
Load more
3 Citations
Neha Rastogi , Jitendra Singh , Shagun Tyagi , Vasim Ahmad , Rakesh Kumar , Rajesh Singh , Ayushi Sharma , Neeraj Priyadarshi , Bhekisipho Twala
Building Trust through ESG: A Study on Consumer Behaviour in Sustainable Fashion
F1000Research , volume 14 , p. 97 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Suzie Noh , Eric C. So , Christina Zhu
Financial Reporting and Consumer Behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 407 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Sinja Leonelli , Maximilian Muhn , Thomas Rauter , Gurpal Sran
How Do Consumers Use ESG Disclosure? Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment with Everyday Product Purchases
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 101811 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
836
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,991
RANK
67,009
3 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies