Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exposure to Superstar Firms and Financial Distress

Accepted at Review of Accounting Studies

77 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2023 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Stephanie F. Cheng

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Regina Wittenberg Moerman

Northwestern University

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: August 11, 2024

Abstract

A small minority of highly successful firms (referred to as superstar firms) have captured large market shares and earned massive profits in recent decades. In this study, we examine whether superstar firms are associated with a greater likelihood of financial distress of firms that are exposed to them in product markets. Building on recent research that shows that superstar firms are associated with increasing aggregate markups, we identify superstars as firms with the highest markups in the industry and whose industry markup share is increasing over time. We then measure a focal firm’s overall product market exposure to superstars by employing product similarity scores. We document that firms with greater exposure to superstars in product markets are more likely to subsequently file for bankruptcy. We also shed light on the underlying channels through which superstar exposure is associated with bankruptcy and show that firms with the greater superstar exposure exhibit weaker financial performance and greater riskiness. Furthermore, we show that the association between superstar exposure and the likelihood of bankruptcy is stronger when superstar firms have greater market power. This association is also concentrated among focal firms that are less innovative, have lower credit financing flexibility, and those with less favorable product market attributes, as these firms are less likely to withstand the competitive pressure from superstar firms. Finally, we triangulate our primary evidence by providing suggestive evidence that sophisticated market participants account for the adverse effects of superstar exposure in their decision-making.

Keywords: Superstar Firms, Financial Distress, Bankruptcy, Financial Performance, Innovation, Product Market Exposure

JEL Classification: G33, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Stephanie F. and Vyas, Dushyantkumar and Wittenberg Moerman, Regina and Zhao, Wuyang, Exposure to Superstar Firms and Financial Distress (August 11, 2024). Accepted at Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4506218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Model of Growth Through Creative Destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E I Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETATM TM analysis A new model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
174,026
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies