Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Voting Behavior and Its Impact on Firm Performance: a Configurational Approach

55 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2023

Cihan Demirtas

Independent

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

This research explores the influence of shareholder votes on corporate governance and firm performance within U.S.-listed companies. By exercising their right to vote, shareholders can express their approval or disapproval of corporate governance practices. To comprehensively examine the effects of shareholder votes, this study adopts a configuration approach that considers both the firm and shareholder perspectives. The analysis focuses on shareholder proposals as a key indicator of different configurations of shareholder voting strategies. Leveraging data from the S&P 500, the study uncovers several significant findings.
Firstly, shareholder proposals pertaining to director incentives and monitoring demonstrate a positive association with high firm performance when supported by shareholders at the board of directors level. Secondly, the specific design of shareholder proposal configurations relating to director incentives and oversight significantly impacts firm performance, leading to varying outcomes of both high and low performance. Lastly, a congruence between shareholder-proposed director incentives and monitoring practices emerges as a key driver of high firm performance, while misalignment between these factors results in poorer performance.
This research contributes to the governance literature by providing valuable insights into the configurations of shareholder proposals that yield high or low shareholder returns. Moreover, it introduces a typology of shareholder voting, shedding light on the diverse strategic approaches employed by shareholders to influence corporate outcomes. Furthermore, this study advances the understanding of strategic management and shareholder activism. By considering the combined effects of shareholder proposals, it offers explanations for the mixed results observed in prior research on single governance mechanisms. The research also addresses conflicts between shareholders and the firm, as well as among shareholders themselves, thereby providing valuable insights at the intersection of strategy and principal-agent theory.

Keywords: Governance Bundles, Strategic shareholder voting, Shareholder monitoring, Comparative corporate governance, Qualitative Comparative Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Demirtas, Cihan, Shareholder Voting Behavior and Its Impact on Firm Performance: a Configurational Approach (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4506443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
208 References
V V Acharya , O F Gottschalg , M Hahn , C Kehoe
Corporate governance and value creation: Evidence from private equity
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 402 Posted: 2013
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
RANK
331,544
1 Citations
208 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies