Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Narcissism and the Power of Persuasion Over Analysts: A Mixed-Methods Approach

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 23-11

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2023 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Charles (Chad) Ham

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Mark Piorkowski

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Sean Wang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: June 5, 2025

Abstract

We study the role of CFO narcissism in the intent and ability to positively influence sell-side analysts’ perceptions of the firm. Consistent with narcissists casting favorable impressions on others, we find CFO narcissism is associated with overly optimistic analyst valuations. We then study public persuasion attempts by analyzing conference call transcripts and private persuasion attempts through a laboratory study. In the conference call setting, we show that narcissistic CFOs use more persuasive language and are more inclined to call on bearish analysts, both of which we link to price target revisions following the call. In the lab study, we simulate a one-on-one conversation and find that narcissists are especially more likely to use coercive methods to induce higher valuations from analysts. Collectively, we show that narcissistic CFOs use persuasion to favorably influence analysts’ perceptions of firm value.

Keywords: Executive Narcissism, Persuasion, Sell-Side Analysts

JEL Classification: G24, G30, G41

Suggested Citation:

Ham, Charles and Piorkowski, Mark and Seybert, Nicholas and Wang, Sean, CFO Narcissism and the Power of Persuasion Over Analysts: A Mixed-Methods Approach (June 5, 2025). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 23-11, Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4506020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: from private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
K D Allee , C Do , F G Raymundo
Principal component analysis and factor analysis in accounting research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
J Amernic , R Craig
Accounting as a facilitator of extreme narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,047
RANK
176,588
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies