Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Disclosure Committees on Non-GAAP Reporting Quality

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2023

Jie Hao

Susquehanna University, Sigmund Weis School of Business

Date Written: July 12, 2023

Abstract

I examine whether company-implemented disclosure committees help to improve non-GAAP reporting quality. I find that firms with disclosure committees provide higher quality non-GAAP performance metrics and that the exclusions used to calculate their non-GAAP numbers are less persistent for future operating income and operating cash flows. Moreover, I find that firms with disclosure committees are less likely to receive SEC comment letters about non-GAAP disclosure. For firms that receive comment letters about non-GAAP reporting, disclosure committees can help to improve non-GAAP reporting quality. Comparing the influence of audit committees and disclosure committees, I find that audit committee financial experts have stronger monitoring effects than those on disclosure committees. Meanwhile, legal experts on disclosure committees provide similar monitoring compared to audit committees’ financial experts. Finally, the interaction between audit committee financial experts and disclosure committee legal experts produces the strongest effect on non-GAAP reporting quality. In sum, my analyses suggest that disclosure committees can provide important monitoring of non-GAAP reporting.

Keywords: disclosure committee; non-GAAP reporting quality; comment letters; financial experts; legal experts; audit committee

JEL Classification: G10, G30, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Jie, The Effect of Disclosure Committees on Non-GAAP Reporting Quality (July 12, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4507617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2018
C Bailey , J Nash , L Xu
Disclosure committees: Implications for disclosure quality and timeliness
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
527,931
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies