Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading, Future Earnings, and Post-Earnings Announcement Drift

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023

Lyungmae Choi

The University of Newcastle

Lucile Faurel

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 3, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the association between insider trading prior to quarterly earnings announcements and the magnitude of the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD). We conjecture and find that insider trades reflect insiders’ private information about the persistence of earnings news. Thus, insider trades can help investors better understand and incorporate the time-series properties of quarterly earnings into stock prices in a timely and unbiased manner, thereby mitigating PEAD. As predicted, PEAD is significantly lower when earnings announcements are preceded by insider trading. The reduction in PEAD is driven by contradictory insider trades (i.e., net buys before large negative earnings news or net sells before large positive earnings news) and is more pronounced in the presence of more sophisticated market participants. Consistent with investors extracting and trading on insiders’ private information, pre-announcement insider trading is associated with smaller market reactions to future earnings news in each of the four subsequent quarters. Overall, our findings indicate insider trading contributes to stock price efficiency by conveying insiders’ private information about future earnings and especially the persistence of earnings news.

Keywords: insider trading, price efficiency, post-earnings announcement drift, predicting earnings

JEL Classification: G14, G38, M4

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Lyungmae and Faurel, Lucile and Hillegeist, Stephen A., Insider Trading, Future Earnings, and Post-Earnings Announcement Drift (July 3, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4507071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4507071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
J. Financ , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
B K Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor competition over information and the pricing of information asymmetry
Account. Rev , volume 87 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2012
R Antle , J S Demski , S G Ryan
Multiple sources of information, valuation, and accounting earnings
J. Account. Audit. Finance , volume 94 , p. 675 - 696 Posted: 1994
B C Ayers , R N Freeman
Evidence that analyst following and institutional ownership accelerate the pricing of future earnings
Rev. Acc. Stud , volume 8 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,551
RANK
72,005
2 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies