Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Shareholders and IPO Disclosure: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital

62 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 20 Mar 2025

Yue Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 20, 2025

Abstract

This paper exploits the recent rise in corporate venture capitalists (CVC) to examine the effect of shareholders’ strategic incentives on firms’ IPO disclosure. CVCs’ investments are often driven by both financial and strategic incentives. I argue that, due to their strategic incentives, CVCs may influence their portfolio firms’ disclosure choices to protect proprietary information and avoid competitive harm not only to the portfolio firm but also to the CVC parent. Using a sample of venture capital (VC)-backed IPO firms, I find that CVC-backed firms are more likely to redact material information in IPO prospectuses through confidential treatment orders than firms not backed by CVCs. This result is robust to using propensity score matching and an instrumental variables approach. Furthermore, the disclosure effect is more pronounced for CVCs with stronger strategic incentives. CVC-backed firms are also more likely to redact information in agreements that tend to contain proprietary information about the CVC. Taken together, this study offers new insights on how a previously unexplored factor—large shareholders’ strategic incentives—affects corporate disclosure decisions.

Keywords: Corporate venture capital; Strategic incentive; IPO disclosure; Proprietary information

JEL Classification: G24, G32, D82, M40

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Yue, Strategic Shareholders and IPO Disclosure: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital (February 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4507516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4507516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
G Ahuja , R Katila
Technological acquisitions and the innovation performance of acquiring firms: A longitudinal study
Strategic Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 197 - 220 Posted: 2001
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
J Atanassov , V Nanda , A Seru
Finance and innovation: The case of publicly traded firms Posted: 2007
C B Barry , C J Muscarella , J W Peavy , M R Vetsuypens
The role of venture capital in the creation of public companies: Evidence from the going-public process
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
RANK
439,204
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies