Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Risk Aversion and the Structure of Executive Compensation

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 31, No. 4, 563-581, 2023

Posted: 21 Jul 2023

Karel Hrazdil

Simon Fraser University

Jeong Bon Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Jiri Novak

Institute of Economic Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic

Christopher D. Zatzick

Independent

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine how chief executive officers' (CEOs) innate risk aversion influences the size and structure of their compensation contracts. In so doing, we estimate managerial risk aversion based on the Big Five personality traits—openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism—inferred using IBM's Personality Insights service. We provide evidence that executives' inherent risk aversion is related to their compensation structure. Contrary to agency theory predictions, we find that more risk-averse CEOs receive more cash-based and less equity-based compensation but receive lower total compensation. This relationship is moderated by differences in firms' resource advantages. Despite the theoretical prediction that managerial risk aversion is a key factor determining the structure of executives' compensation contracts, there is limited empirical evidence on whether firms adjust the components of compensation based on CEOs' risk preferences. Our results help us better understand the interplay between CEO personality and executive compensation. This study offers important implications for organizations in that knowledge about executives' inherent risk aversion is important and relevant for designing effective compensation contracts.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, CEO Personality, Risk Aversion, Executive Compensation, Incentive Pay

JEL Classification: J33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hrazdil, Karel and Kim, Jeong Bon and Novak, Jiri and Zatzick, Christopher D., Managerial Risk Aversion and the Structure of Executive Compensation (January 1, 2023). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 31, No. 4, 563-581, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4508145
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies