Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Value: The Role of Market Volatility and Investor Sentiment

63 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2023

Enrik Dautaj

Maastricht University

Date Written: July 13, 2023

Abstract

This thesis examines the influence of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on firm value under varying market conditions, particularly market volatility and investor sentiment. Employing a Generalized Least Squares regression with fixed effects, this study analyzes data from firms listed on the S&P 500 index from 2012 to 2020. The results indicate that higher commitment to CSR positively impacts firm valuation, reflected in a higher Tobin’s Q, supporting previous literature. However, no significant relationship is found between CSR activities and firm performance, measured by ROA, contradicting some prior studies. Interestingly, the study also reveals that the positive influence of CSR on firm value is less pronounced during periods of high market volatility, suggesting that during times of economic turbulence, investors may prefer financial metrics over ESG initiatives. Further investor sentiment is found to play a moderating role in the relationship between CSR and firm value. However, the effect vary when taking different sentiment indexes into consideration. The overall findings underscore the strategic importance of CSR initiatives, not just as ethical obligations, but also as tools capable of influencing firm valuation.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, firm value, firm performance, market volatility, investor sentiment, Tobin’s Q, ROA, GLS regression

Suggested Citation:

Dautaj, Enrik, Exploring the Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Value: The Role of Market Volatility and Investor Sentiment (July 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4508723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4508723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
V V Acharya , S Steffen
The Risk of Being a Fallen Angel and the Corporate Dash for Cash in the Midst of COVID
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Risk: Theory and Empirical Evidence
Management Science , issue 10 Posted: 2018
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
K.-H Bae , S El Ghoul , Z Gong , O Guedhami
Does CSR matter in times of crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Corporate Finance , p. 67 - 101876 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
RANK
200,848
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies