Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Q&A Interactions: Manager Non-Answers and the Effect of Giving Retail Investors a Voice

46 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 7 Apr 2024

Joe Croom

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Stephanie M. Grant

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Samantha C. Seto

Beedie School of Business, Simon Fraser University

Date Written: July 20, 2023

Abstract

Q&As are designed for managers to provide information requested by participants. However, managers commonly give non-answers (i.e., responses that do not provide the requested information). Non-answers are typically associated with a negative market reaction, even when managers may not be withholding bad news. With the growing influence of retail investors and rise of social investing, such negative reactions to non-answers could rapidly spread and intensify. In two experiments, we examine how engaging retail investors by giving them a voice in the Q&A affects these negative reactions. We find giving investors a voice mitigates investors' negative reactions if managers later give analysts a non-answer rather than provide information. This occurs because investors given a voice have greater affective trust and are less likely to believe the manager has deceptive reasons for giving a non-answer. Our results have important implications for managers considering whether and how to engage with investors using Q&As.

Keywords: retail investors, voice, investment judgment, conference calls, trust

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C91, D83, G11

Suggested Citation:

Croom, Joe and Grant, Stephanie M. and Seto, Samantha C, Q&A Interactions: Manager Non-Answers and the Effect of Giving Retail Investors a Voice (July 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4508135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4508135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B Ashwell
Lemonade and Bumble execs trial retail investor town hall Q&As. IR Magazine Posted: 2021
B Ashwell
2021b. Millions of retail investors convening in Reddit groups and targeting shortsellers
D R Avery , M A Quiñones
Disentangling the effects of voice: The incremental roles of opportunity, behavior, and instrumentality in predicting procedural fairness
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 86 Posted: 2002
M Bamber , S Abraham
On the "realities" of investor-manager interactivity: Baudrillard, hyperreality, and management Q&A sessions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1290 - 1325 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Chenwei Sun , Justin Jin , Khalid Nainar
Impression management in a crisis: A conceptual framework of listed firms during the COVID-19 pandemic
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 114 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,124
RANK
224,339
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies