Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Culture and the Revenue-Expense Matching

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Volume 34, Issue 3

34 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2023

Hee-Yeon Sunwoo

Sejong University

Jeong-Hoon Hyun

Chung-Ang University - College of Business Administration

Seungbin Oh

University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire - College of Business

Seung-Youb Han

Hongik University

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

Prior studies on the link between country-level cultural aspects and firms’ arbitrary accounting practices are scant, and they show mixed results. To gain more insight about the impact of national culture on earnings characteristics, we exploit the matching concept between revenues and expenses, which well reflects managerial estimation and discretion in earnings quality. Using a large sample of 57 countries over the period 1989-2012, we find that (1) the economic association between revenues and expenses becomes stronger in firms from collectivistic and high uncertainty-avoidant countries, (2) the impact of these dimensions of national culture on the matching is more salient for firms from countries characterized by a higher level of accrual accounting, a greater proportion of special-items, and limited openness, and (3) the cultural impact on matching is mainly driven by the correlation between revenue and discretionary expense (i.e., Selling, General, and Administrative expense). These findings are consistent with the view that national culture plays an informal governance role to influence firms’ discretionary accounting choices.

Keywords: National culture; Earnings; Matching; International financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Sunwoo, Hee-Yeon and Hyun, Jeong-Hoon and Oh, Seungbin and Han, Seung-Youb, National Culture and the Revenue-Expense Matching (July 14, 2023). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Volume 34, Issue 3 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4509781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general and administrative costs 'sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting Economics , volume 29 , p. 12 - 14 Posted: 2000
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
RANK
826,677
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies