Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monetary Policy and Mergers and Acquisitions

84 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2023 Last revised: 21 Jan 2024

Johannes Fischer

Deutsche Bundesbank

Carl-Wolfram Horn

European University Institute

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

We analyze the effect of monetary policy on mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity using transaction and balance sheet data of public U.S. companies. We provide causal evidence that contractionary monetary policy reduces M&A activity. This effect is particularly pronounced for financially constrained firms, leading to a change in the composition of firms conducting M&A. As a result, contractionary monetary policy increases the quality of deals taking place as fewer financially constrained firms engage in M&A. Finally, following a monetary tightening, acquirers match with relatively smaller and younger target firms. The profitability of targets firms, relative to acquiring firms, does not change.

Keywords: Monetary Policy, Corporate Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: E44, E52, G34

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Johannes and Horn, Carl-Wolfram, Monetary Policy and Mergers and Acquisitions (July 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4510387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4510387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S Adra , L G Barbopoulos , A Saunders
The impact of monetary policy on M&A outcomes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
S Adra , L G Barbopoulos , A Saunders
The real effects of fed information shocks on the m&a market Posted: 2022
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2017
H Almeida , M Campello , D Hackbarth
Liquidity mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 526 - 558 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,845
RANK
150,243
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies