Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funding Structure, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management Among Listed Commercial Banks in Sub-Saharan Africa

28 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2023

Dr James N. Doku

Department of Banking and Finance, University of Professional Studies, Accra

Jonas Ladime

University of Education-Winneba - Department of Applied Finance & Policy Management

Eric Padi Nyabey

Department of Accounting, University of Professional Studies, Accra

Prince Boateng Yeboah

Department of Accounting, University of Professional Studies, Accra

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

This study examined the influence of corporate governance practices and funding structure on the earnings management of listed commercial banks in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The study pooled 64 listed commercial banks during the period 2012-2018 within a panel data analytic framework. Using Driscoll-Kraay’s standard errors estimation approach, the study found that commercial banks with large board sizes and those with more presence of non-executive board members show contracted levels of earnings management. Also, profitable banks and those with large sizes are deemed not inclined to earnings management. Again, the study found that the funding structure of listed commercial banks influences their earnings management. The study recommends continuous improvement in the corporate governance structures as well as financial market development and efficiency in order to tighten the monitoring effort of key stakeholders in their effort to stem earnings manipulation by listed commercial banks in SSA. Furthermore, efforts should also be made to strengthen the institutional quality environment in stemming the tide of earnings management in listed SSA

Keywords: Earnings management, funding structure, Corporate Governance, Sub-Saharan Africa

JEL Classification: G30, G34, L25

Suggested Citation:

Doku, James and Ladime, Jonas and Padi Nyabey, Eric and Boateng Yeboah, Prince, Funding Structure, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management Among Listed Commercial Banks in Sub-Saharan Africa (July 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4510672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4510672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
M Amidu , W Coffie , P Acquah
Transfer pricing, earnings management and tax avoidance of firms in Ghana
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 259 Posted: 2019
M Amidu , R Kuipo
Earnings management, funding and diversification strategies of banks in Africa
Accounting Research Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 172 - 194 Posted: 2015
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , A Lozano-Vivas
The role of loan loss provisions in earnings management, capital management, and signaling: the Spanish experience
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 45 - 65 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
RANK
672,649
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies