Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exporting Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Foreign Bank Entry

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2023

Yanyan Shen

Beijing Technology and Business University

Xiaojia Zheng

University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: June 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of foreign bank entry on local firms’ social performance. We find that foreign bank entry is associated with better performance of local firms in regard to corporate social responsibility (CSR). The effect is more pronounced when firms face less favorable financial conditions and when corporate governance is weaker. Meanwhile, the role of foreign banks in promoting CSR is stronger in firms subject to environmental concerns but weaker in firms with foreign institutional investors or CEOs with overseas experiences in place. Further analyses show that foreign bank entry significantly releases firms’ financial constraints, reduces corporate risk, and improves CSR awareness, further verifying the three channels of how foreign banks increase firms’ CSR performance. These findings provide valuable insights into the consequence of financial liberalization by highlighting the important role of foreign banks as intermediaries in facilitating CSR practice globally.

Keywords: Foreign bank entry, Corporate social responsibility, Financial constraints, Corporate risk; CSR awareness

JEL Classification: G21, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Shen, Yanyan and Zheng, Xiaojia, Exporting Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Foreign Bank Entry (June 1, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4511362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
M Adams , P Hardwick
An analysis of corporate donations: United Kingdom evidence
Journal of Management Studies , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 641 - 654 Posted: 1998
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
F Allen , J Qian , X Gu
An overview of China's financial system
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 191 - 231 Posted: 2017
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian , M Zhao , J R Barth , J A Tatom , G Yago
A review of China's financial system and initiatives for the future
China's Emerging Financial Markets: Challenges and Opportunities , p. 3 - 72 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Fuxiu Jiang , Kenneth Kim
Understanding Corporate Governance in China
YBARE-D-24-00228 · 41 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
568,026
1 Citations
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies