Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Co-Creation Revolution: The Interplay of Innovation and Performance within the Co-Ceo System

23 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023

SHOU PEI PAN

affiliation not provided to SSRN

minghao huang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Aiming at exploring the impact of the co-CEO system on corporate performance and further analyzing the mediating and moderating mechanisms thereof, this study performs an empirical analysis of the function of co-CEO system through construction of a theoretical model and the collection of data from the listed companies. The findings suggest that the co-CEO system can improve the innovation capability and resource utilization efficiency of an enterprise, and facilitate innovation collaboration among team members, thereby improving the innovation capability of an enterprise. It is also discovered in this study that exploratory innovation and exploitative innovation have a mediating effect in the co-CEO system and corporate performance. Furthermore, it is found that the equity structure and board structure have a moderating effect the co-CEO system and its impact on innovation. The findings indicate that the introduction of co-CEO system helps an enterprise gain competitive advantages and sustainable development in a highly competitive market environment. With an effort to maximize the efficiency of the co-CEO system, it has become crucial to optimize both the equity structure and board structure, which will create a favorable governance environment and ensure adequate resource support, thereby fostering a virtuous cycle of innovation and performance. The aforementioned findings hold significant implications for the practical and theoretical development of an enterprise. An enterprise may consider implementing a co-CEO system to enhance innovation and improve performance by means of diversified leadership models. The optimization of equity structure and board structure is also key in improving the efficiency of the co-CEO system, which is conducive to providing effective governance and resource support and fostering a virtuous cycle of innovation and performance.

Keywords: Co-CEO systemCorporate performanceExploitative innovationExploratory innovationEquity structureBoard structure

Suggested Citation:

PAN, SHOU PEI and huang, minghao, Co-Creation Revolution: The Interplay of Innovation and Performance within the Co-Ceo System. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4512975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4512975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
S Auh , B Menguc
Balancing exploration and exploitation: The moderating role of competitive intensity
Journal of business research , volume 58 , issue 12 , p. 1652 - 1661 Posted: 2005
M Arnone , S A Stumpf
Shared leadership: From rivals to co-CEOs
Strategy & Leadership , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 15 - 21 Posted: 2010
R G Ahangar
The relationship between intellectual capital and financial performance: An empirical investigation in an Iranian company
African journal of business management , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2011
M P Arena , S P Ferris , E Unlu
It takes two: The incidence and effectiveness of co-CEOs
Financial Review , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 385 - 412 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
564,093
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies