Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure, CEO Power and Incentives and Corporate Risk-taking

European Financial Management, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2023

Faek Menla Ali

University of Sussex Business School

Yuanyuan Wu

University of Sussex - School of Business, Management and Economics

XiaoXiang Zhang

University of Sussex - School of Business, Management and Economics

Date Written: July 17, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of ESG disclosure on corporate risk-taking and how this impact is further affected by CEO power and incentives within US companies. We find that ESG disclosure decreases corporate risk-taking based on both accounting-based and market-based returns. Further, we find that ESG disclosure is more effective in mitigating market-based risk-taking than accounting-based risk-taking in a firm with a powerful CEO. In contrast, CEO’s ESG incentivized engagement bonuses weaken ESG disclosure impacts in reducing both types of risk-taking. Our analysis helps understanding of different trade-offs of ESG disclosure in aligning all stakeholders’ benefits under different managerial-related factors.

Suggested Citation:

Menla Ali, Faek and Wu, Yuanyuan and Zhang, XiaoXiang, ESG Disclosure, CEO Power and Incentives and Corporate Risk-taking (July 17, 2023). European Financial Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4513355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A P Abeysekera , C S Fernando
Corporate social responsibility versus corporate shareholder responsibility: A family firm perspective
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 61 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2020
M S Albarrak , M Elnahass , A Salama
The effect of carbon dissemination on cost of equity
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 28 , p. 1179 - 1198 Posted: 2019
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
M Arouri , G Pijourlet
CSR performance and the value of cash holdings: International evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 140 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 284 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
362,694
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies