Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability and Tax Aggressiveness

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2022

23 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2023

Bill Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Xian Sun

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Chia-Hsiang Weng

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Purpose
The aim of this paper is to examine how managerial ability affects corporate tax aggressiveness.

Design/methodology/approach
The study follows the work of Demerjian, Lev, and McVay (2012) and quantifies managerial ability by calculating how efficiently managers generate revenues from given economic resources using the data envelopment analysis (DEA) approach. The study uses a wide range of measures of tax aggressiveness. Firm fixed-effects regressions and a difference-in-differences approach using information regarding CEO turnover to control for endogeneity are used.

Findings
The study finds a negative relationship between managerial ability and corporate tax aggressiveness. Further tests show that this negative relationship is more pronounced for firms with higher investment opportunities or firms with more reputational concerns.

Originality/value
Given the significant costs associated with tax aggressiveness and the negative effect it can have on managerial reputation if discovered, the results suggest that more able managers invest less effort in aggressive tax avoidance activities. This study furthers the understanding of how managerial personal traits affect corporate decision-making.

Keywords: Managerial ability, Tax aggressiveness, Investment opportunities, Reputation costs

JEL Classification: H26, M41, M12

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Bill and Sun, Xian and Weng, Chia-Hsiang and Wu, Qiang, Managerial Ability and Tax Aggressiveness (March 1, 2022). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4513664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
21,969
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies