Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Visibility and Acquisition Likelihood: Evidence from Seeking Alpha Coverage

60 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2023 Last revised: 9 Apr 2025

Pu Gu

Boston College

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Yuan Zou

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: July 18, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates whether social media coverage influences a firm’s likelihood of being acquired. Specifically, we hypothesize that coverage on the Seeking Alpha platform reduces search frictions for low-visibility firms by drawing attention from potential acquirers and M&A advisers (i.e., investment banks), increasing the likelihood of acquisition. Employing a novel setting in which Seeking Alpha contributors were incentivized to write articles about small firms, which historically had received relatively little coverage, we find evidence consistent with our prediction. Moreover, the increased coverage leads to deals between acquirers and targets that are (1) more geographically distant from each other, and (2) less likely to be in the same industry, consistent with a firm visibility channel. We validate our inference by showing such coverage leads to increased financial statement downloads by potential acquirers and investment banks. Overall, our findings point to social media serving an important role in reducing search frictions in the market for corporate control by enhancing managers’ awareness of potential investment opportunities.

Keywords: Firm visibility, mergers and acquisitions, Seeking Alpha, social media

JEL Classification: D83, G34, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Pu and Yost, Benjamin and Zou, Yuan, Firm Visibility and Acquisition Likelihood: Evidence from Seeking Alpha Coverage (July 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4514755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4514755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
K Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
J Ang , C Hsu , D Tang , C Wu
The role of social media in corporate governance
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang
Contracting with controllable risk
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,162
RANK
103,625
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies