Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management, Corporate Governance and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 2, 2022

27 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2023

Yuanhui Li

Beijing Jiaotong University

Yezen H. Kannan

Zayed University; Duquesne University

Stephen Rau

Duquesne University

Shuning Yang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Purpose
The aim of this paper is to provide additional insights on the association between real earnings management (REM) and crash risk, particularly from the perspective of an emerging market economy. It also examines the moderation role that internal and external corporate governance may play in this area.

Design/methodology/approach
Relying on archival data from the RESSET and CSMAR databases over a timeframe from 2010 to 2018 of China listed company, the authors test the hypotheses by regressing common measures of crash risk on the treatment variable (REM) and crash risk control variables identified in the prior crash risk literature. The authors also introduce monitoring proxies (internal controls as an internal governance and institutional ownership as an external governance) and assess how effective internal and external governance moderate the relation between REM and stock price crash risk.

Findings
The results suggest firms with higher REM have a significantly greater stock price crash risk, and that this association is mitigated by external monitoring. That is, greater institutional ownership, particularly pressure insensitive owners, mitigates the impact of REM on stock price crash risk. However, internal control does not mitigate the association between REM and stock price crash risk.

Originality/value
Following the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX) Act, prior research has documented an increase in the use of REM and a positive association between REM and cash risk. The authors demonstrate that they persist in one of the largest emerging markets where institutional regulations, market conditions and corporate behaviors are different from those in developed markets. Also, the assessment of the moderation effect of internal and external governance mechanisms could have meaningful implications for investors and regulators in Chinese and other emerging markets.

Keywords: Real earnings management, Stock price crash risk, Internal control quality, Institutional ownership

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yuanhui and Kannan, Yezen H. and Rau, Stephen and Yang, Shuning, Real Earnings Management, Corporate Governance and Stock Price Crash Risk: Evidence from China (June 1, 2022). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4514739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
18 Citations
Xiaoran Ni , Yuchao Peng , Ji Shen , Samuel A. Vigne , Nanxuan Wang
Available-for-sale is Available for Hoarding: When Non-financial Firms Hold Financial Assets
Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025 · 72 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 18 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaoran Ni , Ye Wang , David Yin
The Market for Corporate Control and Firm Information Environment:Evidence from Five Decades of Data
Journal of Banking and Finance, 2025 · 65 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 18 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 46
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yonggang Tian , James S. Ang , Panpan Fu , Chaoqun Ma , Xiuhua Wang
Does Social Trust Mitigate Insiders’ Opportunistic Behavior? Evidence from Insider Trading
GFJ-D-23-00369 · 71 Pages · Posted: 23 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiao Dong Gan , Xiao Yu Zheng , Cong Cong Li , Gui Qin Zhu
Green Bond Issuance and Trade Credit Access: Evidence from Chinese Bond Market
FRL-D-23-02905 · 18 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 57
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
RANK
441,693
18 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies