Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It's personal, not strictly business: The role of personal relationships in the supply chain

33 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2023

Çelim Yıldızhan

Koç University; University of Nevada Las Vegas

Deniz Anginer

Simon Fraser University (SFU)

Paul J. Irvine

Neeley School of Business

Ray Zhang

Simon Fraser University - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: July 07, 2024

Abstract

Business connections between suppliers and customers can be enhanced by personal relationships between the executive suites. Personal relationships can lead to greater information sharing and bring about greater trust and long-term stability. We show that relative to the typical supplier-customer relationship, suppliers whose CEOs are personally connected to their major customers have significantly higher sales. We also show that personal connections lead to greater information sharing in innovative technologies and greater vertical integration along the supply chain. While greater concentration in sales and greater reliance on personal relationships can have negative consequences for the supplier firms, we show that overall personal relationships are value enhancing.

Keywords: personal relationships, corporate governance: personal relationships along the supply chain JEL Classifications: G34, L14 business connections, suppliers and customers, personal relationships

JEL Classification: G34, L14, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yıldızhan, Çelim and Anginer, Deniz and Irvine, Paul J. and Zhang, Ray, It's personal, not strictly business: The role of personal relationships in the supply chain (July 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4514889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4514889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
R Beer , H Soo , S Leider
Can trustworthiness in a supply chain be signaled?
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 9 , p. 3974 - 3994 Posted: 2018
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
D T Brown , C E Fee , S E Thomas
Financial leverage and bargaining power with suppliers: Evidence from leveraged buyouts
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 196 - 211 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
942
RANK
434,412
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies