Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hedge Fund Activism and Internal Control Weaknesses

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 4, 2022

19 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2023

David Folsom

Weber State University (WSU) - Goddard School of Business and Economics

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Fuzhao Zhou

Bowling Green State University

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

Purpose
The aim of the paper is to investigate the associations between hedge fund activism and corporate internal control weaknesses.

Design/methodology/approach
In this paper, the authors identify hedge fund activism events using 13D filings and news search. After matching with internal control related information from Audit Analytics, the authors utilize ordinary least square (OLS) and propensity score matching (PSM) to analyze the data.

Findings
The authors find that after hedge fund activism, target firms report additional internal control weaknesses, and these identified internal control weaknesses are remediated in subsequent years, leading to better financial-reporting quality.

Originality/value
The findings indicate that both managers and activists have incentives to develop a stronger internal control environment after targeting.

Keywords: Hedge fund activism, Internal control weakness, Targeting, Intervention

Suggested Citation:

Folsom, David and Hasan, Iftekhar and Zhou, Fuzhao, Hedge Fund Activism and Internal Control Weaknesses (December 1, 2022). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 4, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4515849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies