Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Persistence of Cash Flows in Firms Suspected of Manipulation

44 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2023 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Derek Oler

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

Firms that are flagged as possible income manipulators have less persistent income, accruals, and cash flows when compared with non-flagged firms. The accruals persistence for flagged firms returns to the same level of accruals persistence for non-flagged firms after one year; however, cash flow persistence for flagged firms remains low for at least two years into the future, and average cash from operations remains lower for flagged firms at least 5 years into the future. In the year the firm is flagged the market estimates the persistence of cash flows at a level that roughly reflects their actual persistence but in the year after the firm is flagged the market underestimates the persistence of cash flows for those flagged firms. Overall, the market appears to slowly recognize the poor cash-generating potential of flagged firms.

Keywords: income manipulation, persistence, abnormal returns

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Oler, Derek and Coyne, Joshua G., Persistence of Cash Flows in Firms Suspected of Manipulation (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4515366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4515366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , R Price
The costs and benefits of long-short investing: A perspective on the market efficiency literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 37 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2016
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: Implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
M D Beneish
The detection of earnings manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
667,795
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies