Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Related Disclosure Costs: Evidence from Redactions in Material Contracts

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

66 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2023 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

Dichu Bao

Lingnan University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses information in firms’ public disclosures as well as private tax returns to detect tax noncompliance. Consistent with managers perceiving that material contracts contain information that could be useful to the resource-constrained IRS for its enforcement and that making redactions would reduce the likelihood of IRS audits, we find that firms facing greater ex-ante IRS scrutiny are more likely to redact material contract disclosure and redact more filings and contracts. Cross-sectionally, the positive association between IRS scrutiny and redactions in material contracts is stronger for firms with more uncertain tax positions, lower GAAP effective tax rates, and foreign subsidiaries. Redactions in material contracts are concentrated in contracts related to manufacturing and sales, investment, and intangibles, suggesting that managers perceive these contracts as useful for the IRS’s enforcement activities. Greater redactions are also associated with lower likelihoods of a tax audit and of a tax settlement with the IRS. Overall, we provide novel evidence on the association between tax-related disclosure costs and firms’ disclosures of general business information.

Keywords: confidential treatment, redaction, material contracts, tax-related disclosure costs, IRS scrutiny

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Dichu and Myers, Linda A. and Su, Lixin (Nancy), Tax-Related Disclosure Costs: Evidence from Redactions in Material Contracts (November 22, 2024). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4515643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4515643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
307,529
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies