Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Self-Interested Gesture? Corporate Charitable Giving in Response to Government Fiscal Pressure

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 2, 2023

29 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2023

Shengfeng Lu

Wuhan University

Sixia Chen

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Yongtao Cang

Shanghai International Studies University

Ziyao San

York University, Schulich School of Business, Students

Date Written: June 1, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
This study examines whether and how government fiscal pressure influences corporate charitable giving (CCG).

Design/methodology/approach
The authors exploit sub-national tax revenue sharing changes as exogenous variations to government’s fiscal pressure at the city level and then construct a quasi difference-in-differences (DiD) model to conduct the analysis based on a sample that consists of 14,168 firm-year observations in China during the period of 2003 to 2012.

Findings
The authors found that firms increase charitable donations when local governments face higher fiscal pressure. Such effects are more pronounced for firms that have stronger demand for political connectedness in the sample period. Furthermore, this study’s findings suggest that the timing strategy of donating helps firms to lower the effective tax rate and to build stronger political connections. In addition, donating firms outperform non-donating firms in terms of bank loan access and market reputation.

Originality/value
The authors contribute to at least three lines of literature: first, extend the understanding of timing strategies of corporate charitable behaviors; second, contribute to the literature studying the “crowd out” effect between government-provided charitable funds and private donations; finally, contribute to the emerging literature exploring the financial interests associated with corporate donation strategy (Claessens et al., 2008; Cull et al., 2015).

Keywords: Corporate charitable giving, Government fiscal pressure, Timing strategy, Difference-in-differences method

JEL Classification: G38, H32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Shengfeng and Chen, Sixia and Cang, Yongtao and San, Ziyao, A Self-Interested Gesture? Corporate Charitable Giving in Response to Government Fiscal Pressure (June 1, 2023). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 2, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4516951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
897,300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

China Accounting & Finance Review (CAFR)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies