Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Attention Around Corporate Restructurings

71 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2023 Last revised: 31 Jan 2025

Jeremiah Harris

Kent State University - Department of Finance

Jonathan Kalodimos

Oregon State University - College of Business

William O'Brien

University of Illinois Chicago

Date Written: July 21, 2023

Abstract

We investigate investor behavior and firm performance related to corporate restructuring announcements using a database of Security Exchange Commission (SEC) filings by U.S. firms and web traffic on the SEC’s website. We find that abnormal investor attention positively predicts restructuring announcements for up to three months prior to the announcement and attention stays elevated for at least twelve months afterwards. This is true for the attention of both retail investors and mutual funds. We also find that abnormal attention from both retail investors and mutual funds prior to a restructuring announcement is positively related to long-run abnormal returns to the firm, suggesting that some retail investors exhibit a high degree of sophistication and are not simply noise traders. Our results are consistent with investors focusing their limited attention on restructuring plans with the highest probability of restructuring success.

Keywords: restructuring, corporate disclosures, EDGAR, monitoring, information costs

JEL Classification: G3, G11, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Jeremiah and Kalodimos, Jonathan and O'Brien, William, Investor Attention Around Corporate Restructurings (July 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4517715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4517715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Snehal Banerjee , Bradyn Breon-Drish , Joseph Engelberg
Discussion of "disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 Posted: 2020
Brad M Barber , Terrance Odean , Ning Zhu
Do Retail Trades Move Markets?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 151 - 186 Posted: 2009
Scott W Bauguess , John Cooney , Kathleen Weiss Hanley
Investor Demand for Information in Newly Issued Securities
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2018
Ben-Rephael , Zhi Azi , Peter D Da , Ryan D Easton , Israelsen
Who Pays Attention to SEC Form 8-K?
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 59 - 88 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
552,669
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies