Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Corporate Emission Disclosures Through Divestitures

63 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2023 Last revised: 16 Jul 2025

Frank Ecker

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Tanja Keeve

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: January 15, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides evidence that regulated firms respond to the introduction of mandatory firm-level greenhouse gas (GHG) emission disclosures in the United Kingdom by divesting assets, particularly to acquirers outside Europe. These transactions decrease (increase) the regulated sellers' (the acquirers') emission levels and intensities. Divestitures by regulated firms carry significantly lower valuation multiples compared to those by non-regulated firms.  Lastly, we document increased likelihoods of common influential ownership in both the divesting and acquiring entities or of supplier-customer relationships between these entities, suggesting the economic benefits may be at least partially retained at the seller and operational disruptions are mitigated. Overall, the results document a means to evade geographically-limited environmental disclosure mandates: Rather than reducing the actual emissions they are required to disclose, firms transfer legal ownership of high-emission assets to owners beyond the mandate's reach. The result is a decrease in the divesting firms' reported emissions which may not reflect a change in actual emissions.

Keywords: Greenhouse gas emissions, GHG emissions, divestitures, mandatory disclosures, real effects

JEL Classification: M41, G38, Q52, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Ecker, Frank and Keeve, Tanja, Managing Corporate Emission Disclosures Through Divestitures (January 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4517339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4517339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Abrell
Database for the European Union Transaction Log Posted: 2023
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
W R Anderegg , J W Prall , J Harold , S H Schneider
Expert credibility in climate change
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , volume 107 , p. 12107 - 12109 Posted: 2010
S M Bartram , K Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
575
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,010
RANK
108,975
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies