Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade Credit Provision and Strategic Use of Captive Finance Subsidiaries

Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 4517691

52 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023 Last revised: 5 Aug 2023

Mostafa Aghasian

Université Paris Dauphine - PSL Research University

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

Captive finances are financial arms of large manufacturing and retailing firms, aiding their parents' sales by providing long-term loans to customers. However, a significant portion of their lending activities is directed towards independent vendors who operate under franchise agreements with the parent firms. In this study, we construct a comprehensive sample of firms with captive finance arms, allowing for a simultaneous examination of trade credit and bank credit provision by both parent firms and their subsidiaries. This unique framework in the credit literature enables us to investigate the impact of long-term credit monitoring by captive subsidiaries on the parent's short-term credit provision for almost homogeneous collaterals. Our results indicate that parent firms strategically employ trade credit provision as a means to leverage the vendors' network, extending greater short-term trade credit to vendors demonstrating superior long-term loan performance. Furthermore, we assess various factors related to captive finance subsidiaries, including their size, lending activity, and loan portfolio risk parameters. The findings demonstrate a positive relationship between the size and activity of captive finance subsidiaries and the trade credit provision of parent companies. Additionally, a strong correlation is observed between the favorable performance of captive finance loans and the extent of trade credit provision.

Keywords: Trade credit; trade credit risk management; captive finance; consumer loan market.

JEL Classification: G23, G32, D82, L62

Suggested Citation:

Aghasian, Mostafa, Trade Credit Provision and Strategic Use of Captive Finance Subsidiaries (December 1, 2022). Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 4517691, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4517691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4517691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J M Barron , B.-U Chong , M E Staten
Emergence of Captive Finance Companies and Risk Segmentation in Loan Markets: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 40 , p. 173 - 192 Posted: 2008
M Benetton , S Mayordomo , D Paravisini
Credit Fire Sales: Captive Lending as Liquidity in Distress
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
E Benmelech , R Meisenzahl , R Ramcharan
The Real Effects of Liquidity During the Financial Crisis: Evidence from Automobiles Posted: 2016
A N Berger , G F Udell
Collateral, Loan Quality and Bank Risk
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 25 , p. 21 - 42
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
786
RANK
469,965
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies