Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Characteristics and Involvement in ESG Activities: Current Trends and Research Directions

34 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2023 Last revised: 25 Jul 2023

Anand Kumar

Dublin City University

Tatiana King

University of Vaasa; Vaasan yliopisto (University of Vaasa)

Mikko Ranta

University of Vaasa

Abstract

Corporate governance characteristics represent a critical element that affects firms’ outcomes. During the last two decades, researchers have investigated the link between different governance characteristics and firms’ involvement in ESG activities. This paper provides a structured literature review on the topic with a focus on papers published in accounting and finance journals. The corpus comprises 180 academic papers from two ranked journal lists, the Association of Business Schools (ABS) and the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC). Our analysis combines a structured literature review with citation analysis, topic-modelling using a Machine Learning (ML) approach, and a manual review of selected articles. Our unique combined approach towards conducting a literature review allows us to come up with the key research topics in the area, their deep analysis and identification of the current and future research trends. A review of corporate governance and ESG literature suggests a shift towards a more strategic and practically oriented papers.

Keywords: Corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, ESG, machine learning approach, LDA

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Anand and King, Tatiana and King, Tatiana and Ranta, Mikko, Corporate Governance Characteristics and Involvement in ESG Activities: Current Trends and Research Directions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4518363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4518363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elfeky
Earnings management, corporate social responsibility and governance structure: Further evidence from Egypt
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 17 , issue 1-2 , p. 173 - 201 Posted: 2021
C A Adams , S Muir , Z Hoque
Measurement of sustainability performance in the public sector
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 67 Posted: 2014
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,546
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies