Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Fruitful Token? Market Reactions to NFT-related Disclosures

34 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2023

Smadar Siev

Ono Academic College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

In this paper, I measure the market reaction to corporate disclosures submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that contain the expression “NFT” or “Non-Fungible Token.” I follow the existing literature in differentiating between “Clear” disclosures, referring to actual activity related to NFT such as creating and selling NFTs or setting up trading platforms or other related applications, and “Vague” disclosures, referring to vague future intentions or plans to enter the NFT field. Both Clear and Vague disclosures present similar behavior in terms of their effect on the cumulative average abnormal return (CAAR), which is non-significant around the time of the disclosure but constantly and significantly deteriorates in the days following the disclosure. Companies with positive cash flow display positive CAAR in the days surrounding the disclosure, but CAAR deteriorates from day 4 onwards. By segmenting the sample according to various characteristics, I identify some differences in CAAR behavior around and after the disclosure. Overall, it appears that the market does not support corporate involvement in NFTs. Companies that are involved in, or plan to be involved in NFTs are viewed negatively, as reflected in the consistently negative CAAR over the 30 days following the publication.

Keywords: NFT, non-fungible token, SEC disclosures, stock returns, abnormal return, cumulative average abnormal return, market model, marked adjusted model

JEL Classification: G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Siev, Smadar, Non-Fruitful Token? Market Reactions to NFT-related Disclosures (July 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4518941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4518941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
D Y Aharon , E Demir , S Siev
Real returns from unreal world? Market reaction to Metaverse disclosures
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 63 Posted: 2022
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT): Global Market Posted: 2022-11
D Cahill , D G Baur , Z F Liu , J W Yang
I am a blockchain too: How does the market respond to companies' interest in blockchain
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 113 Posted: 2020
S F Cheng , G De Franco , H Jiang , P Lin
Riding the blockchain mania: Public firms' speculative 8-K disclosures
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 12 , p. 5901 - 5913 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
549,043
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies