Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Conflict and Standard-Setting Foundation Oversight

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Amanda Convery

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Matthew Kaufman

Portland State University

Terry Warfield

University of Wisconsin - Wisconsin School of Business

Date Written: July 24, 2023

Abstract

This study examines foundation oversight authority as a distinct tool used to maintain the accounting profession’s delegated authority to set standards. Prior literature traditionally focuses on the standard-setting boards and technical arguments surrounding proposed accounting standards. We examine whether the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) can manage stakeholder conflict and legitimize contentious activity through exercise of its oversight role. The presented case is a qualitative analysis of the FAF’s GASB Scope of Authority project, a rare public exercise of FAF oversight authority, in which the FAF applied its authority despite stakeholder disagreement on the line between oversight and standard setting. We observe the FAF’s oversight of standard setting due process as opposed to the content of proposed standard setting projects. The policy formalizes private consultation at this blurred boundary to safeguard board autonomy and delegated authority. Implications and precedence for the FASB and other contentious accounting issues (e.g., deliberations around ESG reporting) are discussed.

Keywords: oversight, delegated rulemaking, legitimacy, accounting standards setting, environmental social and governance reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Convery, Amanda and Kaufman, Matthew and Warfield, Terry D., Stakeholder Conflict and Standard-Setting Foundation Oversight (July 24, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4519842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4519842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Ackerman
Outgoing GFOA Head Slams GASB
The Bond Buyer , volume 360 Posted: 2007-06-12
A Allen
Agenda setting at the FASB: Evidence from the role of the FASAC Posted: 2018
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The economic consequences of accounting standards: Evidence from risk-taking in pension plans
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 59 - 60 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
RANK
841,369
2 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies