Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards the Natural Environment Agency Theory (NEAT)

52 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2024

Amama Shaukat

Brunel Business School, Brunel University, London

Grzegorz Trojanowski

University of Exeter

Rajesh Tharyan

Northumbria University

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

Drawing on insights from theories in management, economics, finance, and accounting, we
develop the natural environment agency theory (NEAT) to study the agency relation between
business and society in the context of natural environment. Based on public property rights to
clean air, water, and land, we argue that a business (agent) has an implicit contract with society
(principal). Under this contract, it agrees not to impose on society natural environmental agency
costs (NEACs) of pollution, depletion, and degradation while producing and selling
goods/services in return for its license to operate. Building on agency and stakeholder related
concepts, we propose and test the effectiveness of NEAC-reducing mechanisms, including
monitoring, bonding, and incentives. We find support for NEAT predictions. Our findings open
novel directions for future research and inform policy and practice.

Keywords: agency theory, stakeholders, natural environment, corporate social responsibility, environmental disclosures, environmental performance, structural equation modelling

JEL Classification: G3, G39, M4, M41, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Shaukat, Amama and Trojanowski, Grzegorz and Tharyan, Rajesh, Towards the Natural Environment Agency Theory (NEAT) (May 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4519832 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4519832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
R V Aguilera , J A Aragón-Correa , V Marano , P A Tashman
The corporate governance of environmental sustainability: A review and proposal for more integrated research
Journal of Management , volume 47 , issue 6 , p. 1468 - 1497 Posted: 2021
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
K J Arrow , M Intriligator
Political and economic estimation of social effects of externalities
Frontiers of Quantitative Economics Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,014
RANK
271,899
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies