Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grabbing Investor Attention with Limited Resources: A Study of Small Cap Firms’ Communication Channels

ESSEC Business School Research Paper No. 2023-03

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

ESCP Business School Research Paper

54 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Romain Boulland

ESSEC Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Alessandro Ghio

ESCP Business School

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the communication strategies employed by small cap firms listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange. These small cap firms have great discretion in choosing their communication channels with investors and evolve in an environment with few information intermediaries. We investigate the use of three communication channels – press releases, conference calls, and social media – specifically surrounding earnings announcements. Our findings indicate that small cap firms utilize these three communication channels infrequently. However, when announcing positive earnings news, small cap firms are more likely to employ these channels, suggesting that firms communicate opportunistically. We find a positive association between the use of communication channels, particularly of social media, and measures of investor attention. Interestingly, while the use of communication channels is associated with positive stock returns surrounding earnings announcements, social media usage prior to earnings announcements is linked to subsequent stock price reversals. These findings provide insights into the communication practices of small cap firms and their implications for investor attention and market efficiency.

Keywords: Small cap firms, Investor attention, Communication channels, Social media, AIM London

JEL Classification: M41, G30, M48

Suggested Citation:

Boulland, Romain and Filip, Andrei and Ghio, Alessandro and Paugam, Luc, Grabbing Investor Attention with Limited Resources: A Study of Small Cap Firms’ Communication Channels (July 25, 2023). ESSEC Business School Research Paper No. 2023-03, Forthcoming, European Accounting Review , ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the private securities litigation reform Act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 2001
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
P Bilinski
The content of tweets and the usefulness of youtube and instagram in corporate communication
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
531,260
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies