Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Innovation Consequences of Judicial Efficiency

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

97 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Jinhwan Kim

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Terrence Tianshuo Shi

UCLA Anderson

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine how judicial efficiency, defined as a court’s ability to resolve patent cases quickly and in a manner that is mutually agreeable to both parties in the lawsuit, impacts corporate innovation. To do so, we exploit the Patent Pilot Program (PPP) introduced by the U.S. Congress in 2011, which allowed judges with expertise and resources (as opposed to randomly selected judges) to preside over more patent cases to facilitate efficient ruling. We find firms headquartered in counties subject to the PPP increase patent-based innovation by 6.9%, relative to firms in counties not under the program. The increase is driven both by greater investments in R&D as well as firms strategically transitioning their trade secrets to patents. Moreover, patents filed after the PPP exhibit higher patent disclosure quality, consistent with the PPP providing a reliable enforcement mechanism that curbs competitors from illegally exploiting patent information. Our results are concentrated among firms with high legal costs and uncertainty: firms that engage in innovation with “fuzzy boundaries,” that have high litigation risk, and that are small and private. Probing further, we find that small private firms are significantly better at safeguarding their intellectual property (IP) using the judicial system, which in turn, helps them attract more venture capital investments after the PPP. Taken together, our findings underscore the important role of judicial efficiency in facilitating innovation and IP protection.

Keywords: Judicial efficiency, regulatory enforcement, patent litigation, innovation

JEL Classification: J24, K11, K42, M41, O31, O38, O39

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jinhwan and Shi, Terrence Tianshuo and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Innovation Consequences of Judicial Efficiency (April 01, 2025). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4520053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
John R Allison , Mark A Lemley , David L Schwartz
Our divided patent system, U. Chi
L. Rev , volume 82 Posted: 2015
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Ian Appel , Joan Farre-Mensa , Elena Simintzi
Patent trolls and startup employment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 708 - 725 Posted: 2019
Chris Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Stella Y Park
Intellectual property rights, holdup, and the incentives for innovation disclosure Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,833
RANK
78,677
6 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Innovation Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies