Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Greenwashing Pay Off? Evidence from the Corporate Bond Market

66 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2023 Last revised: 5 Sep 2023

Nazim Hussain

University of Groningen

Shuo Wang

University of Edinburgh

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: July 29, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how greenwashing—the gap between a firm’s “green talk” and “green walk”—affects bond pricing. Using 3,810 public bonds issued by U.S. firms, we find a positive relationship between greenwashing and the cost of bonds. We identify the causal relationship by using the Federal Trade Commission’s 2012 regulatory intervention to curb misleading environmental claims as an exogenous shock to greenwashing. We also find a more pronounced relationship between greenwashing and the cost of bonds for firms whose credit rating is adjacent to the investment–speculative borderline, firms operating in environmentally sensitive industries, and firms with opaque information environments. Moreover, our two-step channel analyses show that greenwashing is associated with higher environmental litigation costs and a higher chance of rating disagreements among credit rating agencies, thus identifying risk and information channels through which greenwashing increases the cost of bonds. Our results shed new light on the economic consequences of greenwashing through the lens of the bond market.

Keywords: Greenwashing, Environmental action, Cost of bonds, Credit rating

JEL Classification: G12, M14, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hussain, Nazim and Wang, Shuo and Wu, Qiang and Zeng, Cheng, Does Greenwashing Pay Off? Evidence from the Corporate Bond Market (July 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4524852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4524852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , I V , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2-3 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
H Amiraslani , K Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
The bond market benefits of corporate social capital
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
43,598
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies