Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation Stakeholders: Developing a Sustainable Paradigm to Integrate Intellectual Property and Corporate Social Responsibility

Forthcoming in the American Business Law Journal.

50 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2023 Last revised: 7 Dec 2023

David Orozco

Florida State University - College of Business

Date Written: December 7, 2023

Abstract

Innovation is usually framed in terms of expanding the knowledge frontier or the commercialization of new ideas. However, it is much more than that. Innovation is also about providing greater wellbeing for society and the various stakeholders that support a firm’s efforts to innovate. This article will examine the paradoxical status of innovation and its related legal domain of intellectual property rights, which largely exists beyond the purview of corporate social responsibility (CSR) theory, practice, and discourse. To advance our understanding, this research will define and identify innovation stakeholders as a critical element of CSR. This identification process is necessary since the use and management of intellectual property rights can raise serious ethical concerns related to innovation, yet there is no unifying theory to analyze these scenarios or prescribe the correct course of action for firms that operate within this space.

To address this conceptual deficiency, this article will interlink intellectual property, innovation, and CSR to offer three contributions. First, this article will provide a working definition of the various stakeholders that must be identified to define CSR goals related to innovation. A critical aspect of CSR is the identification of relevant stakeholders. Second, this article will discuss how established CSR approaches will accommodate these innovation stakeholders. Third, this article will introduce and position the managerial strategy of open innovation as a feasible and desirable approach that ethically recognizes, engages, and balances the interests of innovation stakeholders with the interests held by the firm and society. The normative argument to be made is that the firm’s fiduciary leaders have an ethical obligation to pursue open innovation practices as a default norm to achieve the best CSR results for the firm and its various innovation stakeholders.

Keywords: CSR, corporate social responsibility, innovation, corporate governance, intellectual property, open innovation

Suggested Citation:

Orozco, David, Innovation Stakeholders: Developing a Sustainable Paradigm to Integrate Intellectual Property and Corporate Social Responsibility (December 7, 2023). Forthcoming in the American Business Law Journal., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4524683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4524683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
See Uri , Y Hacohen
(defining evergreening when "patents of negligible market value are sometimes disproportionately rewarded by allowing brand-name manufacturers to artificially extend their monopolies over existing drugs when their current legal protections are about to expire , volume 480 Posted: 2020
See Herbert , Hovenkamp
Anticompetitive Settlement of Intellectual Property Disputes, 87 MINN
L. REV Posted: 2003
Carl Shapiro
Antitrust Limits to Patent Settlements
RAND J. ECON , volume 34 Posted: 2003
E G See , Kevin G Rivette , David Kline , Rembrandts In , Attic
Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
405,251
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies