Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Much Do Managers' Characteristics Influence Effective Tax Rates?

36 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2023 Last revised: 17 Sep 2025

Joseph T. Halford

University of Nevada, Reno

Mingming Qiu

Michigan State University - Department of Finance

Serhat Yildiz

University of Nevada, Reno

Date Written: September 17, 2025

Abstract

We question the ability of manager fixed effects to explain the variation in effective tax rates. We present evidence that much of the explanatory power assigned to manager fixed effects in the existing literature is due to exogenous sources. Manager fixed effects from effective tax rate regressions are not related to effective tax rates following exogenous manager turnover, nor are they related to future effective tax rates. Additionally, firms do not appear to place a premium on managers with fixed effects associated with low effective tax rates, as there is no relationship between these fixed effects and forced CEO turnover or total compensation.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Rates, Manager Characteristics, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Halford, Joseph T. and Qiu, Mingming and Yildiz, Serhat, How Much Do Managers' Characteristics Influence Effective Tax Rates? (September 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4524681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4524681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J M Abowd , R H Creecy , F Kramarz
Computing person and firm effects using linked longitudinal employer-employee data
FOB , volume 4 Posted: 2002
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
G Baghdadi , E J Podolski , M Veeraraghavan
Ceo risk-seeking and corporate tax avoidance: Evidence from pilot ceos
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 76 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
658,366
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies