Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Creditors in Monitoring Earnings Quality: a Study on Indian Firms

Parida. M & Mahadik. D (2023). Role of creditors in monitoring earnings quality: A study on Indian firms. Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research. Volume 12 (4).

10 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2023

Mamatanjali Parida

National Institute of Technology Rourkela

Dushyant Mahadik

National Institute of Technology Rourkela

Date Written: Nov 10, 2022

Abstract

In this study, we examine how debt financing in general and bank borrowings in particular affect the earnings quality (EQ) at Indian firms. We conducted an empirical analysis, taking a sample of 626 Indian non-financial firms from 2003 to 2021. Our sample comes from the food and agro-based industry, which is divided into four relatively homogenous groups. On each of the groups, we apply an industry-wise cross-sectional version of the modified Jones model (Dechow et al., 1995) for estimating discretionary accruals (DACC), a measure of EQ. Testing the hypotheses using industry fixed effects for four sub-sectors, we found that bank financing is negatively associated with DACC (positively associated with EQ), whereas non-bank loans affect positively. We interpret this as a sign of discretion applied by opportunistic managers of borrowing firms to showcase a good financial position for reducing the cost of covenant violation. Further, the age, size and performance of the firms are positively related to EQ, while growth opportunity has a negative impact, as expected. The study is helpful for lenders and stakeholders to make policies and minimize their exposure to credit risk.

Suggested Citation:

Parida, Mamatanjali and Mahadik, Dushyant, Role of Creditors in Monitoring Earnings Quality: a Study on Indian Firms (Nov 10, 2022). Parida. M & Mahadik. D (2023). Role of creditors in monitoring earnings quality: A study on Indian firms. Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research. Volume 12 (4)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4525976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K Agrawal , C Chatterjee
Earnings management and financial distress: Evidence from India
Global Business Review , volume 16 , p. 140 - 154 Posted: 2015
P Agarwal , D Arora , S Kashiramka , P K Jain
The impact of non-performing assets on bank performance under basel regime-empirical evidence from India
Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 36 - 45 Posted: 2021
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
N Al-Fayoumi , B Abuzayed , D Alexander
Ownership structure and earnings management in emerging markets: The case of Jordan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 38 , issue 38 , p. 28 - 47 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
RANK
778,745
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies