Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The relevance of legal requirements in the going public process: The discretionary decision of adopting an audit committee




European Journal of Management and Business Economics, https://doi.org/10.1108/EJMBE-01-2024-0018

15 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2023 Last revised: 20 Sep 2023

Leticia Castaño

Universitat de València - Deparment of Corporate Finance

José Emilio Farinós Viñas

Universitat de València

Ana M. Ibáñez

University of Valencia - Department of Corporate Finance

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – We study the role of having an audit committee (AC) as a signal of firm quality and as a monitoring device of the information quality contained in the listing prospectus.



Design/methodology/approach – Ordinary Least Squares regressions are used to examine the association between the presence of an audit committee and (1) the initial return (IR), and (2) the earnings forecast error in the listing prospectus in a sample of 55 Real Estate Investment Trusts that went public on the BME Growth market during 2013–2022. Heckman two-step estimation procedure to correct for endogeneity and bootstrap are used for robustness.


Findings – We show that IR and earnings forecasts are significantly affected by the presence of AC. The IR is higher and the earnings forecast included in the prospectus are of higher quality in firms with AC.


Practical implications – Our research provides (1) managers with new tools when deciding on their corporate governance structure in the listing process, (2) specific evidence for regulators on the role played by ACs in the process of going public, which may be useful in the context of the ongoing regulatory changes regarding admission processes in Europe, and (3) society with a sign that AC can enhance investor and public confidence in financial markets and foster a more stable and transparent investment environment.


Originality/value – The adoption of an ACis voluntary in this market, so this discretionary decision provides an exceptional opportunity to conduct such an analysis. Additionally, this issue has not been previously analysed in Europe.

Keywords: audit committee, initial return, earnings forecast, real estate, corporate governance, going public

JEL Classification: G23, M40, G12, G34

Suggested Citation:

Castaño, Leticia and Farinós Viñas, José Emilio and Ibáñez, Ana M., The relevance of legal requirements in the going public process: The discretionary decision of adopting an audit committee (July 01, 2024).
, European Journal of Management and Business Economics, https://doi.org/10.1108/EJMBE-01-2024-0018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4526053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4526053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
N A Ahmad-Zaluki , W N Wan-Hussin
Corporate governance and earnings forecasts accuracy
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 67 Posted: 2010
M A Ammer , N A Ahmad-Zaluki
The role of the gender diversity of audit committees in modelling the quality of management earnings forecasts of initial public offers in Malaysia
An International Journal , volume 32 , issue 6 , p. 420 - 440 Posted: 2017
D P Baron
A model of the demand for investment banking advising and distribution services for new issues
The Journal of Finance , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 955 - 976 Posted: 1982
J Marakchi-Chtourou , S Courteau , L
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
RANK
791,953
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies