Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Picket Lines: Strategic Employee Disclosure

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4527388

67 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2023 Last revised: 26 Jun 2024

Brigham Brau

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Junyoung Jeong

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: April 13, 2023

Abstract

Using survey and archival data, we examine how employees strategically disclose information. We find that when unions renegotiate collective bargaining agreements (CBAs), employees write more Glassdoor reviews and leave lower ratings. Our survey responses from over 300 union representatives indicate encouraging strategic disclosure by employees on online platforms is a common union strategy. Building on survey responses, we demonstrate that strategic disclosure during CBA renegotiation intensifies when the union is less exposed to right to work laws and when the union is less exposed to unfair labor practices. We then document that strategic reviews are associated with improved workplace conditions, time to fill new jobs, and better contract wage outcomes. We conclude that employees strategically disclose information about their employers online, and that their disclosure has economic consequences for employing firms.

Keywords: Strategic disclosure, union negotiations, labor markets, information, social media

JEL Classification: E24, G34, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brau, Brigham and Jeong, Junyoung, Digital Picket Lines: Strategic Employee Disclosure (April 13, 2023). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4527388, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4527388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4527388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic complexity in disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , L Cheng , Q Tan , X Wu
EDGAR Implementation, Unionization, and Strategic Disclosure. Unionization, and Strategic Disclosure Posted: 2023-04-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,657
RANK
138,678
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies