Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

89 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2023

Akintayo Akinlabi

University of Nigeria

Date Written: May 25, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of capital structure in listed insurance companies in Nigeria for the period of twelve years, from 2006-2018. Ex-post facto research design was adopted for this study. The population of the study is made up of the 13 DMBs listed on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The data used in this study were secondary data derived from annual reports of DMBs that are listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The study used panel regression with respect to the use of Hausman specification test to determine the use of fixed or random effect model. The random effect regression result revealed that that EE has a negative Significance effect on Financial performance of DMBs in Nigeria. The study showed health and safety has a significant positive effect on profitability of DMBs in Nigeria, based on the regression result, Environment expenditure has insignificant negative effect on Profitability of DMBs, concludes that effective corporate social responsibility activities that can improve financial performance of deposit money banks should be engaged on. The study recommends that, Given the fact that corporate responsibility leads to profit realization management of deposit money banks financials should ensure that the responsibility is inbuilt into their policy statements and back it up with effective budget and improve more on the environment where they operate.

Suggested Citation:

Akinlabi, Akintayo, Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (May 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4527520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4527520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C Adams , A Zutshi
Corporate social responsibility: Why Business Should Act responsibly and be Accountable
Australian Accounting Review , volume 14 , issue 3 Posted: 2004
G J Alexander , R A Buchholz
Corporate social responsibility and stock market performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
K Amaeshi , B Adi , C Ogbechie , O Amao , K Carroll , A Hatfield , J
Corporate social responsibility in Nigeria: western mimicry or indigenous practices?
, volume 28 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
G Balabanis , H Phillips , J Lyall
Corporate social responsibility and economic performance in the top British companies: are they linked?
European Business Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 44 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
RANK
215,250
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies