Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Note on Investment Policy and Executive Compensation in Family Firms vs. Non-Family Firms

9 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2023 Last revised: 20 Feb 2024

Anton Miglo

Wilfried Laurier University Waterloo

Date Written: August 1, 2023

Abstract

This note compares the investment policy and managerial compensation in family and non-family firms that remains an interesting and quite controversial topic in literature. Also this is one of the first theoretical papers that separately analyzes "active" family firms and "passive" family firms. In the former case the family member(s) actively participate in the firm management. The difference between the two types in terms of empirical evidence is mentioned in some recent papers. Our model suggests that investment policy of passive family firm is more risky than that of non-family firm since the independent managers put higher value on the objective factors and less influenced by such factors as eg. family benefits and that of active family firm is usually less risky than that of non-family firm. Most of the model's predictions have not been directly tested but are consistent with the spirit of some findings in recent literature.

Keywords: agency problem, family firm

JEL Classification: D86, G35, H24, H32, J33

Suggested Citation:

Miglo, Anton, Note on Investment Policy and Executive Compensation in Family Firms vs. Non-Family Firms (August 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4528020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4528020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
S Bauguess , M Stegemoller
Protective governance choices and the value of acquisition activity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 550 - 566 Posted: 2008
M Becht , P Bolton , A Röell
Corporate Governance and Control Posted: 2002
S Boubaker , P Nguyen , W Rouatbi
Multiple large shareholders and corporate risk-taking: Evidence from French families
European Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 697 - 745 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
889,053
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies