Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking Incommensurability Boundaries? On the Production and Publication of Inter-Paradigmatic Research

Forthcoming, Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2023-1474

32 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2023 Last revised: 25 Jan 2024

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: July 28, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: This essay takes issue with the incommensurability thesis, which assumes that meaningful research work across different paradigms cannot occur. Could it be that the thesis understates the case for meaningful relationships to develop across paradigms? Is it possible that researchers can authentically and rewardingly collaborate across paradigms and create joint studies published in established journals?
Approach: Based on the observation that inter-paradigmatic research exists, we investigate two questions. How is inter-paradigmatic research expressed in the accounting research literature? How can we comprehend the process that underlies the development and publication of inter-paradigmatic research, focusing on cohabitation involving the positivist and interpretive paradigms of research?
Findings: To deal with our first question, we focus on two inter-paradigmatic articles: Greenwood et al. (2002) and Paugam et al. (2021). We find each article showcases a dominant paradigm – whereas the role of the other paradigm is represented as secondary; that is, complementing and enriching the dominant paradigm. To address our second question, we rely especially on our involvement as coauthors of three inter-paradigmatic studies, published between 2019 and 2022 in FT50 journals. Our analysis brings to the fore a range of facilitators that fit our experiences, such as the development of cross-paradigmatic agreement within the authorship to cope with the complexity surrounding the object of study, the crafting of methodological compromises (e.g., regarding the number of documents to analyze), and the strategizing we enacted in dealing with journal gatekeepers.
Originality: From our experiences, we develop a model, which provides a tentative template to make sense of the process by which inter-paradigmatic research takes place. The model highlights the role of what we call “epistemic mediation” in producing inter-paradigmatic studies.

Keywords: epistemic mediation; incommensurability thesis; inter-paradigmatic research; mediation strategies; paradigms

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé, Breaking Incommensurability Boundaries? On the Production and Publication of Inter-Paradigmatic Research (July 28, 2023). Forthcoming, Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2023-1474, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4529369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Qualitative research and theory development: Mystery as method Posted: 2011
M Alvesson , J Sandberg
Habitat and habitus: Boxed-in versus box-breaking research
Organization Studies , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 967 - 987 Posted: 2014
M Alvesson , A Spicer
Neo-institutional theory and organization studies: A mid-life crisis?
Organization Studies , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 199 - 218 Posted: 2019
Anonymous
Paradigm Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
RANK
819,493
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies