Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Shareholder Activism on the Long-Term Performance of Firms in Japan

48 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023

Qingyi Tai

Meiji University

Yumiko Miwa

Meiji University

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

Despite Japan emerging as the second most significant “playground” for activists, after the U.S., the impact of shareholder activism on the performance of Japanese firms remains unclear. In this study, we employ a dataset of activist campaigns in Japan from 2003 to 2021 and use propensity score matching and difference-in-differences analysis to investigate the impact of shareholder activism on Japanese firm performance. We find that shareholder activism negatively impacts Japanese firm performance, in contrast to the experiences in the U.S. We explore the channel driving this negative impact and provide evidence that this impact of shareholder activism originates from the deterioration of investment efficiency, especially in reducing the investment in firms already prone to underinvestment.

Our study clarifies the impact of shareholder activism on firm performance in Japan. The findings enrich the literature on how shareholder activism impacts firms by providing fresh insights into the investment efficiency mechanism of shareholder activism that affects firms in the long run. In Japan, which has a unique corporate governance system, typically the firms prone to underinvestment are negatively affected by shareholder activism. Thus, the study contributes to the debate on whether shareholder activism mitigates agency problems and enhances firm value, or whether it ultimately damages firm value due to its short-term orientation, providing insights to firms, regulators, and policymakers.

Keywords: corporate governance, shareholder activism, hedge funds, firm performance, investment efficiency, underinvestment

Suggested Citation:

Tai, Qingyi and Miwa, Yumiko, The Impact of Shareholder Activism on the Long-Term Performance of Firms in Japan (July 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4530252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4530252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
181,854
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies