Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing Loyalties: A Behavioral Study on how the Quality of Supervisor-Subordinate Relationships Affects Whistleblowing Intentions

51 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2023

Jace Garrett

Clemson University

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Kyle Sopp

University of Denver - Daniels College of Business

Date Written: August 3, 2023

Abstract

While high-quality relationships among employees yield many benefits to organizations, they may have unintended consequences for whistleblowing. In a first experiment, we investigate whether high-quality employee-supervisor relationships reduce employees’ willingness to report supervisor wrongdoing through an internal hotline. We also investigate whether the quality of such relationships mitigates the effect of evidence strength on reporting intention. In a second experiment, we test the robustness of the effects of relationship quality and evidence strength on employees’ willingness to report wrongdoing identified in our first experiment, but to an external auditor. We also examine two factors that may mitigate the negative effect of relationship quality on employees’ reporting intentions: certifying to a code of ethics and employees’ perceptions of the importance of the role of the independent auditor. Our findings suggest that strong employee-supervisor relationships reduce whistleblowing intentions and reduce the positive effect of evidence strength on reporting intentions. Path model results provide evidence that the effect of relationship quality on reporting intentions operates through perceived supervisor culpability and the perception of betraying the supervisor. We also find that employees who are more familiar with the role of independent auditors and believe their work is important are less susceptible to the deleterious effects of relationship quality and are more likely to blow the whistle on their supervisor.

Keywords: relationship quality; whistleblowing; evidence strength; code of ethics

Suggested Citation:

Garrett, Jace and Prawitt, Douglas F. and Sopp, Kyle, Balancing Loyalties: A Behavioral Study on how the Quality of Supervisor-Subordinate Relationships Affects Whistleblowing Intentions (August 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4530943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4530943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
P Alleyne , M Hudaib , R Haniffa
The Moderating Role of Perceived Organisational Support in Breaking the Silence of Public Accountants
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 147 , p. 509 - 527 Posted: 2018
J A Andrade
Reconceptualising Whistleblowing in a Complex World
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 128 , p. 321 - 335 Posted: 2015
Global Study on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2020
T Barnet , D S Cochran , G S Taylor
The internal disclosure policies of privatesector employers: An initial look at their relationship to employee whistleblowing
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 136 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
564
RANK
747,544
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies