Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Real Earnings Management: The Role of the Board and Institutional Investors

Journal of Knowledge Globalization, Spring 2015

50 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2023

Mahfuja Malik

Sacred Heart University; Boston University

Date Written: August 8, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates whether corporate governance can mitigate real earnings management. Specifically, this study investigates the role of the board and institutional owners to mitigate real earnings management. In recent years, firms have been switching from accrual-based earnings management to real earnings management, and the incidence of real earnings management has increased. The role of corporate governance to reduce accrual-based earnings management is well documented in the literature; however, there is no firm evidence regarding the role of corporate governance to constrain real earnings management. In order to fill the gap in the literature, this paper examines whether corporate governance, specifically the board of directors and institutional investors, play any role to reduce real earnings management. In this study, I find the evidence that firms engage in real earnings management either to avoid reporting losses or to meet analysts' forecasts. The cross-sectional analysis reveals that these activities are less prevalent for the firms that have larger institutional investors; however, no evidence regarding the role of the board to prevent real earnings management is indicated.

Suggested Citation:

Malik, Mahfuja, Corporate Governance and Real Earnings Management: The Role of the Board and Institutional Investors (August 8, 2015). Journal of Knowledge Globalization, Spring 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4535234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4535234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
RANK
456,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies