Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Management Strategy and Carbon Disclosures: An Exploratory Study Exploratory Study

Business and Society Review, 125(2), 225-239, 2020

28 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2023

Kanwalroop Kathy Dhanda

Sacred Heart University - Marketing Department

Mahfuja Malik

Sacred Heart University; Boston University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a concept aimed to ensure that corporations conduct their business in an ethical manner by taking care of their environment and human resources in addition to their economic impact. Often times, CSR refers to the steps undertaken by a corporation to measure its efforts to improve the environment and social well-being. One of the aspects of CSR pertains to the disclosure of emission information and carbon management strategy (CMS). Carbon Management refers to analyzing and focusing on those areas within the corporation where cost reductions can be made via energy reductions, waste management and reduced resource consumption. In this paper, we examine the role of an effective CMS on the emission disclosure behavior of firms. We utilize the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) surveys to find that firms adopting an effective CMS are more likely to disclose the information about both direct and indirect emissions.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Carbon Management Strategy, Carbon Disclosures, Direct Emissions

Suggested Citation:

Dhanda, Kanwalroop Kathy and Malik, Mahfuja, Carbon Management Strategy and Carbon Disclosures: An Exploratory Study Exploratory Study ( 2020). Business and Society Review, 125(2), 225-239, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4535263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
L L Benites-Lazaro , N A Mello-Théry
CSR as a legitimatizing tool in carbon market: Evidence from Latin America's Clean Development Mechanism
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 149 , p. 218 - 226 Posted: 2017
Cdp
The carbon management strategic priority -leading firms reap cost savings, risk mitigation and revenue rewards Posted: 2010
B Comyns
Determinants of GHG reporting: an analysis of global oil and gas companies
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 136 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 369 Posted: 2016
D Cormier , M Magnan
Corporate environmental disclosure strategies: determinants, costs and benefits
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
718,946
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies