Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timeliness of 10-K Filings, Financial Performance, and Stock Returns

38 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023

Li (Lily) Brooks

Texas A&M International University

Yun Cheng

State University of West Georgia

Linxiao Liu

State University of West Georgia - Richards College of Business

Michael D. Yu

State University of West Georgia

Date Written: August 9, 2023

Abstract

Using a dataset constructed from the EDGAR database, this study investigates whether the timing of filing 10-Ks contains useful information to investors. We argue and find that firms with better earnings news are more likely to file their 10-Ks early. We further show that firms experience earnings increase would accelerate the filing of their 10-Ks. We explore whether the timeliness measure is useful for predicting future financial performance and stock returns. We find that firms filing 10-Ks early in the current year are more likely to have better earnings and higher stock returns in future years. Our results are robust to different measures of timeliness, before and after the statutory filing deadline changes, and subsamples of firms with large or small market capitalization.

Keywords: Form 10-K, Annual Report, Timeliness, EDGAR, Fundamental Analysis, SEC Filings, Financial Disclosure, Accelerated Filers

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G14, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Li and Cheng, Yun and Liu, Linxiao and Yu, Michael D., The Timeliness of 10-K Filings, Financial Performance, and Stock Returns (August 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4536648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4536648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,295
RANK
254,445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies