Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Auditor Assurance in Cryptocurrency Trading

79 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023

Jingyi Qian

University of Maryland

Date Written: July 15, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the value of System and Organization Controls 2 (SOC 2) audits to customers. A SOC 2 audit is a voluntary assurance service provided by an independent CPA over a firm's internal controls relevant to information system security. I use cryptocurrency exchanges, a setting where the lack of customer trust can be particularly acute, to examine whether SOC 2 audits increase customer demand. I find a substantial increase in liquidity following the disclosure of initial SOC 2 audit completion: the trading volume of cryptocurrencies listed on audited exchanges increases by more than 60 percent, and the price impact decreases by approximately 40 percent in the three months after SOC 2 audit disclosure. Exploring the channels through which SOC 2 audits provide value to customers, I find that exchanges with high-quality security measures are more likely to initiate SOC 2 audits, and that continued audits ensure that the quality of security measures remains high. Overall, this study provides novel evidence that SOC 2 audits provide value to customers by sending a credible and positive signal of exchange security, and thus significantly increase customer demand.

Keywords: JEL Classification: M42, G23, G32 System and Organization Controls 2 (SOC 2) Audit, Crypto Exchange, Crypto Trading, Security Measures, Customer Trust

JEL Classification: M42, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Qian, Jingyi, The Value of Auditor Assurance in Cryptocurrency Trading (July 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4536274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4536274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Aicpa
Trust Services Criteria for Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, Confidentiality, and Privacy Posted: 2017
Aicpa
SOC 2 -SOC for Service Organizations: Trust Services Criteria Posted: 2022-01
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
C Alexander , M Dakos
A Critical Investigation of Cryptocurrency Data and Analysis
Quantitative Finance , volume 20 , p. 173 - 188 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,955
RANK
180,781
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies