Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of introducing investor-focused ESG reporting

The Wharton School Research Paper Forthcoming

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

59 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023 Last revised: 1 Sep 2025

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Irina Luneva

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

Firms and jurisdictions are increasingly adopting ESG reporting, driving a growing empirical literature on the consequences of ESG reporting for investors, firms, and other stakeholders. We develop a model to understand the nuanced effects of the introduction of ESG reporting. In our model, a firm provides ESG and financial reports, which investors use to price the firm's stock, influencing management's real and reporting incentives. We characterize how investors respond to new ESG reporting; how the introduction of ESG reports affects corporate performance, stock prices, and market responses to financial disclosures; and  trace these effects to ESG performance, expected cash flows, and financial misreporting. We provide conditions under which the introduction of ESG reporting discourages corporate ESG, and under which it encourages corporate ESG but lowers equity price at the same time. We discuss empirical implications of our results and how our model can be applied to settings involving non-ESG disclosures.

Keywords: ESG reporting, ESG valuation, G23, G34, M14, M40, stock price, earnings response coefficients, Real effects

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G34, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Luneva, Irina, Implications of introducing investor-focused ESG reporting (August 29, 2025). The Wharton School Research Paper Forthcoming, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4537743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4537743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use esg information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
R Antle , J S Demski , S G Ryan
Multiple sources of information, valuation, and accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 675 - 696 Posted: 1994
S Arif , Y S J Yoon , H H Zhang
The information content of mandatory human capital disclosures-initial evidence Posted: 2022
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of ifrs in europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
606
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
102,328
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies