Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Critical Audit Matters (CAMs) Provide a Road Map for Litigation? Evidence from Revenue CAMs

51 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2023 Last revised: 14 Aug 2023

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Sean McCarthy

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Laura Swenson

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Date Written: August 12, 2023

Abstract

PCAOB AS 3101 requires the auditor to communicate in the audit report any critical audit matters (CAMs) identified during the planning or performance of the audit. One of the most common type of CAMs (revenue CAMs) relates to core earnings, which is fundamental to valuing a corporation (Penman 2001; Bradshaw and Sloan 2002). We examine whether attorneys use revenue CAMs to identify litigation targets when there is a drop in the stock price. We demonstrate that companies with revenue CAMs are more likely to be sued than companies without revenue CAMs when there is a drop in the stock price. Further analysis shows that attorneys specifically focus on revenue CAMs when there is a decrease in sales from the prior year or when there are higher levels of discretionary revenues. Our results highlight an unintended consequence associated with the recent change in the PCAOB audit report.

Keywords: PCAOB, Critical Audit Matters, Litigation Risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Buslepp, William L. and Abbott, Lawrence and McCarthy, Sean and Swenson, Laura, Do Critical Audit Matters (CAMs) Provide a Road Map for Litigation? Evidence from Revenue CAMs (August 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4539422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4539422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,073
RANK
253,593
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies