Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Association of Factors Influencing Green Banking Practices

International Journal of Applied Engineering and Management Letters (IJAEML), ISSN: 2581-7000, Vol. 7, No. 3, August 2023

19 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2023

Anjay Kumar Mishra,Ph.D.

Srinivas University; Madan Bhandari Memorial College, Tribhuvan University; Kathmandu College of Management ; Madhesh University

P. S. Aithal

Poornaprajna Institute of Management, Udupi

Date Written: August 14, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: Nepal has a novel chance to acquire from green financing. The study aims to identify factors influencing and their association with Green Banking Practices in Nepalese context.

Design/Methodology/Approach: It is a Pragmatic philosophy-based survey research. The data were gathered using convenience sampling through Google link among executive employee of bank. The SPSS software utilized for the correlation, regression, ANOVA and Variance Inflation Factor multicollinearity analysis and hypothesis testing.

Findings/Result: The stakeholder demand, environmental interest, and brand image are affecting green banking practice. Among them, the rand image emerged as the most influential factor. Green banking plays a crucial role for sustainability. Implementing green banking practices creates new ways for product differentiation. Green banking serves as a means for individuals and businesses to contribute significantly to the environment and make the world a better place to live. Embracing green banking promotes environmental friendliness along with reduction in risks and costs for banks, enhancement of their reputation, and contribution to the common good. It is crucial for banks in Nepal to recognize their responsibilities towards the environment, society, and the economy, enabling their participation and survival in the global market. Green banking practices not only contribute to a sustainable environment but also strengthen brand image and attract environmentally conscious customers.

Originality/Value: The identification of these influencing factors will aid banks, regulators, and policymakers in promoting the green financial practices in Nepal.

Keywords: Stakeholder Demand, Environmental Interest, Brand Image, Regulatory policy, Benefits, Green Banking Practice

Suggested Citation:

Mishra, A.K. and Aithal, P. S., Assessing the Association of Factors Influencing Green Banking Practices (August 14, 2023). International Journal of Applied Engineering and Management Letters (IJAEML), ISSN: 2581-7000, Vol. 7, No. 3, August 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4540818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Ritesh Kumar Thakur
The Influence of Environmental Sustainability Orientations on organizational Performance: A Review
16 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shila Mishra , Shukra Raj Adhikari , Soni Karki
Women's Entrepreneurial Intentions: A Case From Madhesh Based On Skill
Mishra, S., Adhikari, S. R., &amp; Karki, S. (2024). Women’s entrepreneurial intentions: A case from Madhesh based on skill. New Perspective: Journal of Business and Economics, 7(1), 93– 107, · 16 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A.K. Mishra , Shila Mishra
Employee Engagement
30 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,214
RANK
240,099
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies