Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Straight from the Horse's Mouth: Determinants and Consequences of Managers’ Conference Call Participation

54 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Jennifer Lu

California State University, Northridge - Department of Accounting

Dawn A. Matsumoto

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Keehea Moon

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: August 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the factors firms consider when deciding which managers participate in their earnings conference calls and the consequences of this decision. We find significant variation in participation, with frequent participation by non-CEO/CFO/IR managers (38% of calls) and managers who only participate in the Q&A (27%). Participation is also not static (only 37% have the same managers as the prior four quarters). Firms are more likely to add new managers to calls to address increased information demands following unusual firm events and to showcase managerial talent when succession planning is critical. However, firms recognize costs of adding inexperienced managers and are less likely to add managers when fewer managers have experience communicating with external stakeholders. Adding a new manager changes the textual content of calls and is negatively associated with analysts’ outputs, perhaps because of their unfamiliarity with the manager. Overall, our findings suggest that who discloses information matters.

Keywords: corporate disclosure, conference calls, analyst forecast properties, manager style

JEL Classification: M41, L20, D80, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Jennifer and Matsumoto, Dawn and Moon, Keehea, Straight from the Horse's Mouth: Determinants and Consequences of Managers’ Conference Call Participation (August 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4540646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4540646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
271,899
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies