Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Pricing: How Disclosure of Internal Carbon Pricing Affects Managerial Honesty

41 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2023

Jeremy B. Lill

University of Kansas

Alice Muncy

Baylor University

Wioleta Olczak

Marquette University

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the effect of companies’ internal carbon price and disclosure of their internal carbon price on manager budgeting decisions. Internal carbon pricing attaches a monetary value to reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and both the price itself and the disclosure of the price are voluntary in the U.S. Therefore, we examine the effect that these company-level decisions have on managerial behavior. Our study shows that a higher carbon price leads to greater slack levels relative to a lower carbon price, and this effect is exacerbated when companies publicly disclose their carbon price. Our findings contribute to literature and practice by showing an unintended consequence of a high carbon price and the disclosure of that price.

Suggested Citation:

Lill, Jeremy B. and Muncy, Alice and Olczak, Wioleta, Carbon Pricing: How Disclosure of Internal Carbon Pricing Affects Managerial Honesty (August 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4541520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4541520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
911
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies