Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interbank Credit Information-Sharing and Trade Credit: Worldwide Evidence

61 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Xiaoqi Chen

Xiamen University

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jeong Bon Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Junqi Liu

Xiamen University, Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: August 13, 2023

Abstract

Exploiting the country-level adoption of public credit registries (PCRs), we find that interbank credit information-sharing via PCRs has a positive effect on firms' use of trade credit. This effect is more pronounced in firms with higher agency costs, less transparent information environments, greater operating uncertainty, and larger credit risks, as well as in countries with weaker legal environments, but is muted in firms not relying on bank credit as a source of financing. PCRs with wider coverage, better accessibility, and stronger regulation also exhibit a greater impact on firms' use of trade credit. In the long run, the increase in firms' trade credit financing following PCR establishment facilitates durable supply chain relations. Collectively, we provide international evidence suggesting that with interbank credit information-sharing, suppliers delegate monitoring to lending institutions, mitigating suppliers' concern about customers' default risks and increasing the supply of and demand for trade credit. Our findings shed fresh light on the determinants of trade credit financing and the role that formal lending institutions play in trade credit contracting.

Keywords: Trade credit, Interbank credit information-sharing, Public credit registries, Credit risk

JEL Classification: G28, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaoqi and Chen, Yangyang and Kim, Jeong Bon and Liu, Junqi, Interbank Credit Information-Sharing and Trade Credit: Worldwide Evidence (August 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4541911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4541911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
V Acharya , H Almeida , F Ippolito , A Perez
Credit lines as monitored liquidity insurance: Theory and evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , issue 3 , p. 287 - 319 Posted: 2014
M Adelino , M A Ferreira , M Giannetti , P Pires
Trade credit and the transmission of unconventional monetary policy
Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 775 - 813 Posted: 2023
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
339,258
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies