Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Goodwill Impairments and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from Corporate Bonds

60 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2023 Last revised: 14 Nov 2024

Kourosh Amirkhani

San Jose State University

Zhuoli Axelton

University of Wisconsin - Green Bay

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: August 5, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the impact of goodwill impairments on corporate bond costs. Findings reveal that firms disclosing impairments face higher debt costs in primary and secondary markets. A path analysis confirms a direct cash-flow effect and an indirect information effect. Cross-sectional analyses show this effect is more pronounced among firms with low accounting quality, histories of frequent impairments, and large or unexpected impairments. Results suggest bondholders view impairments as indicators of increased risk, potential earnings management, and poor managerial decision-making. Consequently, they demand higher spreads to compensate for perceived information asymmetry and agency conflicts. This evidence supports FASB and IASB's decision to maintain the impairment-only model by demonstrating that creditors find goodwill impairment

information valuable in assessing firm risk and managerial performance.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment; Goodwill; Bond spread, Goodwill, Bond spread, Cost of Debt, Corporate Bond

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M4

Suggested Citation:

Amirkhani, Kourosh and Axelton, Zhuoli and Gramlich, Jeffrey and Xu, Li,

Goodwill Impairments and the Cost of Debt: Evidence from Corporate Bonds

(August 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4542965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4542965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
Intangible Assets. Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 17 Posted: 1970
M P Arena
Corporate litigation and debt
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 87 , p. 202 - 215 Posted: 2018
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
511,510
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies