Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Business Analysis Using a Balanced Scorecard in Ensuring the Long-Term Sustainability of the Company

47 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2023

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 16, 2023

Abstract

Research background – Effective management of modern business is impossible without the systematic development and implementation of solutions aimed at changing it, due not only to market demands and competitive conditions, but also to the requirements of various social groups. Corporate governance should be focused on ensuring that all stakeholders perform their functions in the best possible way and satisfy their needs while maintaining a balance of interests between them.
Purpose – This article is devoted to the consideration of the possibility of using the integrated business analysis developed by its author, based on a balanced scorecard, in the process of studying the strategic aspects of a company's activities.
Design/methodology/approach – The methodological basis of the study was the concept of business analysis as such and the concept of a balanced scorecard by R. Kaplan and D. Norton.
Findings – It is shown that an integrated business analysis based on a balanced scorecard involves a comparison with the target value, identifying the causes of deviations and predicting the company's strategic rating. It includes a comprehensive analysis of financial performance, customer performance, internal business process performance, and learning and development performance of a company's balanced system. Integrated business analysis based on a balanced scorecard begins with the analysis of the indicators of training and development of the company's personnel and ends with the forecasting of its strategic rating. Its methodological tools are expert- score rating, comparison method, graphical and tabular methods, factor analysis techniques and various forecasting methods. Development of an integrated business analysis based on a balanced scorecard is the result of further development of the concepts of business analysis and a balanced scorecard and is aimed at further improving the information support of the strategic management of the company, ensuring its sustainable development in the long term.
Originality/value – The author comes to the conclusion that integrated business analysis based on a balanced scorecard is a new and quite effective tool for studying the strategic aspects of a company's activities, forming the analytical support for its strategic management in modern conditions. Its results can be used in the development of management decisions not only long-term, but also medium-term and short-term, providing a sufficient degree of stability of the company from the point of view of its main stakeholders.

Keywords: balanced scorecard, integrated analysis, strategic rating, management, company

JEL Classification: L29, M10, M41, O12, C60

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Integrated Business Analysis Using a Balanced Scorecard in Ensuring the Long-Term Sustainability of the Company (August 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4542599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4542599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,132
RANK
453,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies