Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Critical Audit Matters Be a Signal of Poor Accruals Quality?

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2023 Last revised: 25 Apr 2024

Yuntian Li

Dalhousie University - School of Business

Bing Luo

San Francisco State University

Zvi Singer

HEC Montreal

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

Date Written: April 24, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the relation between critical audit matters (CAMs) and accruals quality. We find that more CAMs are associated with poorer accruals quality, and this association is driven by recurring rather than non-recurring CAMs. An examination of specific CAM topics shows that revenue CAMs are associated with lower revenue-related accruals quality, and tax CAMs are associated with poorer tax-related accruals quality, suggesting that CAMs are indicators of poor accruals quality. A cross-sectional analysis shows that the negative association between CAMs and accruals quality is mitigated for companies with a richer information environment, proxied by the number of analyst followings, auditor quality and large accelerated filer status, suggesting that rich information environment restrains the use of discretion such that CAMs no longer indicate poor accruals quality. Overall, our findings suggest that CAMs provide a relevant signal of financial reporting quality and can help the PCAOB in assessing the usefulness of this disclosure.

Keywords: critical audit matters; accrual quality; critical audit matters topics; external monitoring

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yuntian and Luo, Bing and Singer, Zvi and Zhang, Jing, Can Critical Audit Matters Be a Signal of Poor Accruals Quality? (April 24, 2024). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4543935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4543935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Allen , B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
D R Ayres , J L Campbell , J A Chyz , J E Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
J Bédard , P Coram , R Espahbodi , T J Mock
Does recent academic research support changes to audit reporting standards? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 255 - 275 Posted: 2016
P K Boolaky , P Quick
Bank directors' perceptions of expanded auditor's reports
International Journal of Auditing , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 158 - 174 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
154,735
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies