Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Merits of Securities Litigation and Corporate Reputation

Contemporary Accounting Research, 41 (1), Spring 2024

51 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Antonis Kartapanis

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

We explore how securities litigation affects corporate reputation. Experts remain concerned that nonmeritorious securities class actions - those that will be dismissed or settled for nuisance amounts - cause reputational damage. Although several prior studies show reputational costs for nonmeritorious cases, they generally use indirect measures based on returns or total market losses, which are mechanically associated with securities litigation elements. In contrast, we use a relatively direct reputation measure from Fortune’s “Most Admired Companies” list. We find significant reputational damage after meritorious litigation, with the strongest cases having the largest effects. However, we find no evidence of reputational damage after nonmeritorious litigation. We also find that Fortune’s reputational damage measure is associated with more negative returns around the litigation filing date. We show possible mechanisms for our results, as initial legal filings contain information allowing market participants to assess case merits. Our results imply that reputational damage is primarily due to fraud, which securities litigation helps reveal to the market, rather than litigation itself. Thus, reputational damage is not an issue in over 70% of securities class actions due to the high frequency of nonmeritorious cases.

Keywords: Reputation, Fraud, Securities Class Actions, Litigation

JEL Classification: D82, G30, H26, K22, K41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Kartapanis, Antonis and Yust, Christopher, The Merits of Securities Litigation and Corporate Reputation (September 1, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, 41 (1), Spring 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4544022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4544022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
D Anginer , S Mansi , A J Warburton , C Yıldızhan
Firm reputation and the cost of debt capital Posted: 2017
Litigation funding and the regulation of the class action industry Posted: 2020-12
A B Badawi
How informative is the text of securities complaints
Journal of Law Posted: 2023
T Baker , S J Griffith
How the merits matter: Directors' and officers' insurance and securities settlements
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 157 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 832 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Tanveer Bagh , Kainat Iftikhar , Muhammad Nadir Shabbir
The Dichotomy of Corporate Litigation Risk in Shaping ESG Disclosure Does Green Innovation Matter?
RIBAF-D-24-00444 · 34 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2024 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
505,214
1 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies