Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptual Foundations of Audit: Quality, Independence, Efficiency, Signaling and Competition

28 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2023

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Dae-Hee Yoon

Yonsei University

Date Written: August 17, 2023

Abstract

Independent external audit of financial reports of public organizations is mandatory in many jurisdictions in the world. Regulatory regimes attempt to maintain and enhance the effectiveness of audits so they can serve their fundamental purpose of facilitating capital investments through more informative financial reports. Regulations seek to improve the effectiveness of financial reporting by promoting audit quality and competition in the audit market, and by restricting managers and auditors from taking actions which may lower the information quality. In this paper, by using two examples of South Korea and U.S., we analyze the five conceptual foundations of audit: (1) various aspects and meanings attached to audit quality; (2) the challenges of ensuring the reality and appearance of auditor independence; (3) efficiency of resources deployed in audit; (4) the consequences of regulatory restrictions on financial reporting and audit options exercised by companies when they deprive managers of stronger companies of the opportunity to credibly signal their strength through conservative reporting; and (5) the value and the multifarious consequences of promoting competition in the audit market. Our analysis of the definition of audit quality, and the approaches to independence, efficiency, signaling, and competition provides potentially useful material for regulatory policy.

Keywords: audit quality, auditor rotation, regulation, signaling, competition

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam and Yoon, Dae-Hee, Conceptual Foundations of Audit: Quality, Independence, Efficiency, Signaling and Competition (August 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4544254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4544254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
994
RANK
249,893
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies