Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Event-Based Data Authenticity Analytics for Iot and Blockchain-Enabled ESG Disclosure

31 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2023

Wei Chen

The University of Hong Kong

Wei Wu

Chongqing University

Zhiyuan Ouyang

The University of Hong Kong

Yelin Fu

The University of Hong Kong

Ming Li

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

George Q. Huang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Abstract

Environment, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure has raised significant interest in academia and industry for sustainable development and investing. However, the data authenticity of the ESG disclosure is still a serious matter of concern. This study proposes a novel solution to solve the above problem. First, an ESG information disclosure system (IBESG) enabled by IoT and blockchain is originally designed. The IBESG integrates IoT and blockchain technologies to facilitate the collection and transmission of data during ESG disclosure, and to ensures the data authenticity, consistency, and transparency. Second, we design a Local and Global Authenticity Verification Flow (LGA) consisting of edge computing and cloud computing to sufficiently verify the authenticity through the data flow. In addition, data authenticity analytics algorithms are developed in this study, which contains event-based spatial-temporal analytics and authenticity index computation. Finally, we carry out an experimental simulation to illustrate the implementation of the IBESG and the performance of the verification solution. Moreover, the sensitivity analysis of the above solution is conducted, and relevant suggestions on deployment are given. This study is expected to help academia and industry apply the solution in similar scenarios and inspire new ideas.

Keywords: Data authenticity, ESG reporting, Spatial-temporal analytics, blockchain, Internet of Things

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wei and Wu, Wei and Ouyang, Zhiyuan and Fu, Yelin and Li, Ming and Huang, George Q., Event-Based Data Authenticity Analytics for Iot and Blockchain-Enabled ESG Disclosure. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4544036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4544036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
576,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies