Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning From the Past: Applying Concepts of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to Restore Consumer Trust in Global Data Privacy

47 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023 Last revised: 19 Apr 2024

Jared Maslin

University of California, Berkeley - School of Information

Michelle Maslin

Independent

Date Written: August 18, 2023

Abstract

Today’s global data privacy landscape is comparable to that of the United States accounting scandal era of the early 2000s: a lack of accountability, transparency, oversight, and comprehensive regulation has led to complexity, confusion, exploitation, and distrust. Utilizing the successful groundwork laid by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx) and subsequent regulations, companies can regain consumer trust in the investment of their data, just as investor trust was restored post-SOx. This paper demonstrates how privacy policies, which are intended to be public-facing documents through which notice and informed consent decisions are based, should be treated like financial statements and Form 10-Ks: they should be prepared using standardized formats, include privacy risk disclosures, be attested to by executive leadership, and be subject to independent third-party audits. We also outline the benefits of not only establishing privacy internal controls, similar to their financial counterparts, but also testing these controls and having management attest to their effectiveness. Taking inspiration from the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), we put forward our own Privacy Cube designed to help companies understand how to navigate the establishment of a bespoke privacy control structure, beginning with the identification of privacy risk areas. Using the “SOx Effect” model positioned in this paper, we envision global privacy regulation and processes that focus privacy obligations on the restoration and preservation of consumer trust.

Keywords: sox, sarbanes-oxley, privacy, data privacy, data protection, corporate governance, data governance, trust, consumer risk, privacy cube, internal controls, risk identification, risk model, risk-based decisions, risk-based privacy

Suggested Citation:

Maslin, Jared and Maslin, Michelle, Learning From the Past: Applying Concepts of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to Restore Consumer Trust in Global Data Privacy (August 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4545137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4545137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
FTC Approves Final Settlement with Facebook Posted: 2012-08-10
Sara Merken
Sephora to pay $1.2 mln in privacy settlement with Calif. AG over data sales
Reuters Posted: 2022-08-24
Recommendation of the Council concerning Guidelines Governing the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data
Amended on 07 October Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,761
RANK
296,056
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies