Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agile Sustainable Development: A Primer on Corporate Impact Indicators and Valuation Factors via Agile Models

47 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2023 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Dennis West

University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Centre for Socio-Legal Studies

Dimitrij Euler

WifOR Institute; Value Balancing Alliance

Date Written: August 1, 2023

Abstract

The world of sustainability reporting and impact measurement faces a triple challenge: scaling adoption while speeding up change and ensuring mutual support of states, civil society, and businesses. Organizations dedicated to developing various methodologies have become a key driver of the growth of information ecosystems of producers, users, and intermediaries of sustainability and financial data. Our report is a primer on agile models in this highly active field for an audience of professional leaders engaged in developing and testing across sectors, disciplines and fields. The findings of this report are the outcome of prior academic research, practitioner engagement and the pilot of the first global sprint. This pilot - the first of its kind - focused on measuring and valuing Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) with participants in Europe and Asia. We introduce first-hand experience with the "sprint model" in global standard and method development, which is emerging beyond its original software and product development fields.

Suggested Citation:

West, Dennis and Euler, Dimitrij, Agile Sustainable Development: A Primer on Corporate Impact Indicators and Valuation Factors via Agile Models (August 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4545204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4545204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M Besharov , R Joshi , E Vaara , D West
The Decisive Decade: Organising Climate Action -Catalytic Collaboration for Systems Change Posted: 2021
S Burchell , C Clubb , A Hopwood , J Hughes , J Nahapiet
The roles of accounting in organizations and society
Accounting From the Outside (RLE Accounting) , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2013
H Chesbrough , W Vanhaverbeke
Open innovation: Researching a new paradigm Posted: 2006
Platform Recommendations on Data and Usability: Weblink
European Sustainable Finance Platform Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
293,623
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies