Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage Decisions: The Role of Corporate Disclosure Choices and the Influence Effects of Peer Analysts’ Disclosure Preferences

54 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023

Bharat A. Jain

Towson University

Omesh Kini

Georgia State University

Yaoyi Xi

San Diego State University

Date Written: August 2023

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether and how firms’ corporate disclosure policies influence the composition of an analyst’s research portfolio. We find that an analyst will tend to initiate (terminate) coverage of a firm if there is greater (lesser) alignment between: 1) the disclosure policy choices of the firm and the analyst’s disclosure preferences and 2) the disclosure preferences of the other analysts covering the firm and the analyst. The impact of the gap in the disclosure preferences of the analyst and other analysts following the firm is weaker if there is greater dispersion in these analysts’ disclosure preferences. Additionally, the analyst is less (more) likely to initiate (terminate) coverage of the firm if these other analysts are more likely to influence the firm to change its disclosure policies in a direction that will increase the gap between the firm’s disclosure policies and the analyst’s disclosure preferences. As a consequence of these coverage decisions, the dispersion in disclosure policy choices across an analyst’s research portfolio firms significantly decreases with the analyst’s general experience in the research industry. Furthermore, firms tend to align their disclosure policy choices with the preferences of their covering analysts, particularly when there is greater consensus in disclosure preferences among these analysts. These findings provide support for why analysts account for the potential influence effects of existing analysts in their coverage decisions. Our paper suggests that firms’ disclosure policy choices and the influence effects of peer analysts’ disclosure preferences are important considerations in analysts’ coverage decisions.

Keywords: Sell-side analysts; disclosure policy choices; coverage decisions; analyst influence effects

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, K22, L22, L25

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Bharat A. and Kini, Omesh and Xi, Yaoyi, Analyst Coverage Decisions: The Role of Corporate Disclosure Choices and the Influence Effects of Peer Analysts’ Disclosure Preferences (August 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4545417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4545417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Bianca Beyer , Vanessa Flagmeier , Urska Kosi
Private Peers’ Disclosure Transparency and Public Firms’ Information Environment
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 143 · 53 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2023 · Last revised: 19 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 277
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
401,016
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies