Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between ESG Performance and Corporate Financial Performance

30 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2023

Natalia Nehrebecka

University of Warsaw

Kai Xing

University of Warsaw

Abstract

This paper presents the economic theories related to ESG (Environment, Society, Governance), CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and CFP (Corporate Financial Performance). The main goal is to analyze the relationship between ESG performance and corporate financial performance using a sample of 1719 non-financial companies listed on S&P 500, Nikkei 500, S&P ASX 300, CSI 300, FTSE 350 and S&P Europe 350 index and considering a time span of twelve years (from 2010 to 2021). The data is extracted from Refinitiv database using Refinitiv Eikon Datastream application with the In-Cell-Formula Builder. By employing Two-Step System GMM Estimations with Windmeijer robust standard errors, this study finds that there is a mixed relationship between ESG score and corporate financial performance measured by Tobin's Q and ROA. Furthermore, this research decomposed ESG score into each individual pillar and found heterogeneous results while environment pillar is in the dominant position, and its pattern is similar as ESG score.

Keywords: Environmental Economics, ESG, Tobin's Q, ROA, GMM

Suggested Citation:

Nehrebecka, Natalia and Xing, Kai, The Relationship between ESG Performance and Corporate Financial Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4545090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4545090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,250
RANK
114,072
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies