Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary ESG Disclosure and Heterogeneous Beliefs among ESG Investors

Posted: 20 Aug 2023 Last revised: 3 Aug 2025

Michael D. Kimbrough

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Cong Tao

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Xu (Frank) Wang

Saint Louis University - Chaifetz School of Business

Sijing Wei

Creighton University - Heider College of Business

Date Written: August 19, 2023

Abstract

Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investors explicitly state that they consider ESG indicators in their investment strategies. Theoretically, these investors can use these indicators to meet dual objectives: maximizing investment returns through better fundamental analysis and maximizing the ESG performance of their portfolios by selecting the stocks of companies with business practices they view favorably. However, ESG investors may disagree about the investment implications of ESG indicators due in large part to the lack of transparent and credible ESG information. Therefore, we examine whether voluntary ESG reports reduce the disagreement among ESG investors, as measured by the dispersion in the excess weights on individual stocks in different actively managed ESG mutual funds’ portfolios. We find that ESG disclosure is associated with a significant reduction in disagreement among ESG investors, indicating that ESG reports are beneficial to their target audience. The effect of ESG disclosure is enhanced when reports are more accessible and when they have more credibility-enhancing features. Disclosures on environmental and social matters contribute to the overall effect of ESG disclosure on disagreement among ESG investors. ESG reports have a greater impact on disagreement among ESG investors than among non-ESG investors, indicating that there are meaningful distinctions between the two classes of investors.

Keywords: Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reporting; Voluntary disclosure; Disagreement; ESG Funds; Mutual Funds; Investment Decisions, Voluntary disclosure, ESG investors, Dispersion in beliefs

JEL Classification: Q56, G2, G11, G38, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kimbrough, Michael D. and Tao, Cong and Wang, Xu (Frank) and Wei, Sijing, Voluntary ESG Disclosure and Heterogeneous Beliefs among ESG Investors (August 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4546045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4546045
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,642
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies