Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Guidance Stoppage and the Value of Financial Analysts’ Research

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Dan Palmon

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Xuan Peng

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Ari Yezegel

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relation between voluntary disclosure and the value of analysts’ research by studying the change in the informativeness of analysts’ research after managers stop providing quarterly guidance to investors. We find that the market reaction to analysts’ recommendation revisions increases significantly after guidance stoppage, controlling for confounding factors as well as for firm and time fixed effects. The increase in market reaction is greater for firms with more opaque information environments and for firms that previously provided disaggregated guidance. Further, the effect of guidance stoppage on the informativeness of analysts’ research reverses after managers resume guidance. Finally, textual analyses of analysts’ reports before and after guidance stoppage reveal that analysts issue longer, more frequent, and detailed reports that convey more forward-looking information after stoppages. These findings collectively shed light on the relation between the supply of voluntary disclosure and the value that sell-side analysts add to price discovery in capital markets.

Keywords: financial analysts, management guidance, guidance stoppage, stock recommendation, earnings forecast, analysts’ reports

Suggested Citation:

Palmon, Dan and Peng, Xuan and Yezegel, Ari, Earnings Guidance Stoppage and the Value of Financial Analysts’ Research (July 14, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4547619
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies