Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Private’ Equity Is a Misnomer: Government Support Has Been Driving the Restructuring of US Corporate Structure and the Transfer of Wealth to Buyout Firms Over the Past 40 Years

46 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2023

Carolyn Sissoko

University of the West of England (UWE)

Date Written: August 21, 2023

Abstract

With a focus on the US this paper demonstrates that so-called ‘private’ equity is a vehicle through which the government-subsidized banking system picks winners and losers in an economy where an even playing field was left behind almost half a century ago. The paper documents the origins of private equity when the too-big-to-fail banks found an alternative outlet for syndicated lending in the finance of leveraged buyouts after the LDC lending crisis, and the continuation of the close relationship between too-big-to-fail banks and the buyout, aka ‘private’ equity, industry today. The paper explains how buyouts pervert the corporate form, transforming the win-win for the economy of separating ownership from control in order to raise financing for large projects into a win-lose for the economy of separating the corporate debtor from the controlling borrower for the benefit of the borrower. The outcome is both an over-indebted corporate sector and a transfer of wealth from economic stakeholders to the ‘private’ equity buyout firms. The extent of over-indebtedness in the US corporate sector generated by buyouts has resulted in repeated Federal Reserve bailouts of so-called ‘private’ equity since the aftermath of the 2007-09 financial crisis.

Keywords: leveraged buyout, private equity, too big to fail, Federal Reserve, leveraged loan, corporate governance

JEL Classification: E5, G2, N22

Suggested Citation:

Sissoko, Carolyn, ‘Private’ Equity Is a Misnomer: Government Support Has Been Driving the Restructuring of US Corporate Structure and the Transfer of Wealth to Buyout Firms Over the Past 40 Years (August 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4547079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4547079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,241
RANK
122,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies