Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Share Repurchase Executions: Insights and Synthesis from the Existing Literature

25 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2023

Joerg Osterrieder

University of Twente; Bern Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This literature review thoroughly examines the prevailing research on share repurchase executions, with a particular emphasis on identifying and elucidating the substantial knowledge gap present in this field. With companies repurchasing trillions of dollars worth of their own shares, understanding the mechanisms and impact of these transactions is of paramount importance for the global economy. The paper provides a comprehensive discussion of share repurchase mechanisms and motivations, laying bare the complexity and varied impacts of these financial actions. It delves into open market repurchases and accelerated share repurchase contracts, spotlighting the critical need for deeper comprehension of the execution phase, which remains largely uncharted. Despite notable exceptions, such as the work by Guéant (2015, 2017, 2020), vital questions about trading schedules, implications, costs, broker and corporate performance, and the psychological effects of beating a buyback benchmark, among others, remain unanswered. The review further identifies significant limitations in current methodological approaches, including a heavy reliance on partial differential equations and tree methods, and champions the broader application and development of more advanced tools and methodologies, like machine learning and artificial intelligence. Finally, the paper suggests potential areas for future research, such as the role of technology in share repurchase execution, the psychological factors influencing corporate buybacks, and the development of performance metrics for brokers and corporations. This review not only brings to light the existing literature gap, but also paves the way for further exploration and analysis that could fundamentally enhance our understanding of share repurchase executions.

Keywords: Share repurchase, Buyback contracts, Machine learning, Neural networks, Accelerated share repurchase, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Osterrieder, Joerg, Examining Share Repurchase Executions: Insights and Synthesis from the Existing Literature. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4548038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4548038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
623
RANK
203,475
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies