Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Patterns and Managerial Guidance

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 59, pages 1173–1213 (2022) https://doi.org/10.1007/s11156-022-01073-9

George Mason University School of Business Research Paper

53 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Anna Agapova

Florida Atlantic University; Florida Atlantic University

JK Aier

George Mason University

Zhanel DeVides

Penn State - Abington

Date Written: April 28, 2022

Abstract

This study examines whether the presence of patterns in a firm’s earnings history, namely: strings of earnings increases or decreases and breaks in such strings, affects the likelihood and outcomes of management issued guidance. We find that, consistent with increased demand for information about changes in established earnings patterns, firms are more likely to issue guidance before breaks in patterns. For continuing strings, disclosure choices depend on the nature of news: while firms are less likely to issue guidance for strings of decreases, they actively guide for strings of increases after Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). Our results indicate that management guidance before negative breaks in patterns is incorporated in stock prices upon issuance, and consequently attenuates the market reaction during earnings announcements. However, we fail to find evidence of market reaction to guidance issuances for positive break news, which investors may view as less credible. Overall, we conclude that while firms appear to issue guidance strategically, investors do not fully incorporate the information from management in stock prices. Our findings are consistent with the litigation hypothesis of greater disclosure to avoid litigation risk associated with changes in earnings patterns, and only partially support the claim that management guidance may reduce information asymmetry associated with break events.

Keywords: Management guidance, Earnings strings, Earnings announcements

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agapova, Anna and Aier, Jagadison K and DeVides, Zhanel, Earnings Patterns and Managerial Guidance (April 28, 2022). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 59, pages 1173–1213 (2022) https://doi.org/10.1007/s11156-022-01073-9, George Mason University School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4548523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,038
RANK
640,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies