Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Productivity, Innovation Spillovers, and Mergers: Evidence from a Panel of U.S. Firms

The B.E Journal of Policy and Analysis, 23 (2), pp. 397-422, 2023

Posted: 27 Aug 2023

Mahdiyeh Entezarkheir

University of Western Ontario - Huron University College

Anindya Sen

University of Waterloo

Date Written: March 03, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the impact of mergers and product innovation on labour productivity through a unique panel data set of roughly 2,000 publicly traded U.S. manufacturing firms from 1980-2003. OLS estimates reveal that mergers interacted with citation-weighted patents are significantly correlated with increases in labour productivity. OLS and IV estimates of citation-weighted patent stocks with respect to firm-specific labour productivity are positive and consistently significant. Further, mergers are significantly correlated with a rise in citation-weighted patent stocks and research and development (R&D) spending. In tandem, our findings suggest that larger firms resulting from mergers spend more on innovation, which results in higher quality patents, and increased labour productivity.

Keywords: Labour Productivity, Employee Value, Innovation, Patents, Mergers

JEL Classification: L10, L60, L40, O30, O31, O34, O38

Suggested Citation:

Entezarkheir, Mahdiyeh and Sen, Anindya, Productivity, Innovation Spillovers, and Mergers: Evidence from a Panel of U.S. Firms (March 03, 2023). The B.E Journal of Policy and Analysis, 23 (2), pp. 397-422, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4550939
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies