Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contingent Convertible Bonds Issuance by Banks Around the World: The Role of Dividend Payouts

80 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2023

Chenyu Shan

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Meng Xie

Fudan University - School of Management

Dragon Yongjun Tang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Fumin Zhu

Shenzhen University

Abstract

Contingent convertible bonds (CoCos) are new bank capital instruments introduced after the 2008 global financial crisis. Analyzing a comprehensive international dataset, we find that banks with higher dividend payouts are more likely to issue CoCos. This dividend effect is more pronounced in countries where regulators tend to intervene in bank operations. CoCos help banks appear safer and assuage regulators’ concerns about bank risk. By lowering the likelihood of government intervention, CoCo-issuing banks can better maintain their dividends, which are important for bank funding. Indeed, our results reveal stronger dividend effect for larger banks, which are more subject to regulatory attention. Our findings suggest that part of banks’ motive for CoCo issuance is to maintain dividend payouts.

Keywords: Contingent convertible bond, CoCo issuance, dividend payout ratio, Tier 1 capital

Suggested Citation:

Shan, Chenyu and Xie, Meng and Tang, Dragon Yongjun and Zhu, Fumin, Contingent Convertible Bonds Issuance by Banks Around the World: The Role of Dividend Payouts. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4551927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4551927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Acharya , V Viral , Irvind Gujral , Nirupama Kulkarni , Hyun Song Shin
Dividends and bank capital in the financial crisis of 2007-2009
Journal of Financial Crises , volume 4 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2022
Acharya , V Viral , T Hanh , Hyun Song Le , Shin
Bank capital and dividend externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 988 - 1018 Posted: 2017
Acharya , V Viral , H Lasse , Thomas Pedersen , Matthew Philippon , Richardson
Measuring systemic risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
Acharya , V Viral , Philipp Schnabl , Gustavo Suarez
Securitization without risk transfer
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , p. 515 - 536 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
RANK
914,805
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies