Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Managerial Extraversion, Manager-Strategy Fit, and Investor Decisions: Evidence from an Online Experiment

44 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2023

Sebastian B. Kuhn

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Alexander Paulus

LMU Munich School of Management

Date Written: August 25, 2023

Abstract

We provide experimental evidence on how firm outsiders’ perception of managerial extraversion affects their perception of manager-strategy fit and subsequent investment decisions. While recent literature shows the importance of outsiders’ perception of CEO characteristics, the manager-strategy literature suggests that CEO characteristics affect firm success jointly with firm strategy. Consequently, investors’ assessment of the firm may be driven by their perception of manager-strategy fit rather than their perception of CEO characteristics alone. We focus on investors’ perception of extraversion as literature suggests that CEO extraversion is positively related to performance in innovative and expanding firms. In our experiment, we manipulate perceived extraversion by varying speech rate in an audio treatment and manipulate firm type through differing firm descriptions. We find that when a manager who is perceived as extroverted manages a Prospector (Defender) firm, subjects view manager-strategy fit as higher (lower) and the firm as more (less) likely to succeed in the future. Furthermore, investors regard such firms as less risky and more attractive investments. Our results contribute to the growing literature that analyzes how outside stakeholders’ perception of managerial traits influences their assessment of the firm and investment decisions.

Keywords: manager characteristics, investor perception, investor judgement

JEL Classification: M12, G41, C91

Suggested Citation:

Kuhn, Sebastian B. and Paulus, Alexander, Perceived Managerial Extraversion, Manager-Strategy Fit, and Investor Decisions: Evidence from an Online Experiment (August 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4551865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4551865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies