Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Quality, Managerial Performance Period, and Relative Performance Evaluation

40 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2023 Last revised: 20 Feb 2024

Sebastian B. Kuhn

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

I analyze how internal control quality is associated with the use of relative performance evaluation (RPE) contingent on the length of the managerial performance period. Literature suggests that RPE incentivizes earnings management. Firms anticipate the costs arising from this and use less RPE when earnings management is easier, for example when internal controls are weak. However, the expected costs of earnings management induced by RPE depend not only on the manager’s opportunities to manage earnings, but also the manager’s incentives to do so. I argue that the manager’s incentives to manage earnings towards RPE targets are weaker for longer performance periods, and that as a result, the expected costs of earnings management induced by RPE are dependent on the length of the performance period. Consistent with this argument, I find that firms use less RPE in the presence of weak internal controls when RPE targets are short-term, but more RPE for long-term targets. I conduct several robustness tests to reduce concerns of endogeneity and find consistent results. Additionally, I find evidence consistent with the idea that managers conduct more earnings management when they have both “opportunity and motive”, i.e., when internal controls are weak and targets are short-term. Overall, I present novel evidence that firms take into account internal control quality contingent on the length of the managerial performance period when designing RPE contracts.

Keywords: internal control, relative performance evaluation, management control

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kuhn, Sebastian B., Internal Control Quality, Managerial Performance Period, and Relative Performance Evaluation (February 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4551851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4551851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The Other Side of the Trade-off: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
R Antle , A Smith
An Empirical Investigation of the Relative Performance Evaluation of Corporate Executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , J W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
682
RANK
609,870
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies