Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Giving Back to Getting Ahead: The Surprising Link between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Financial Performance of India's Top Pharmaceutical Companies

Humanities and Social Science Studies [UGC Care Listed Journal], VOL. 12 ISSUE (1) NO 8, 2023

22 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2023

Eldho Babu

Loyola College, Chennai; Sacred Heart College

Maria Joseph

Loyola College, Chennai; Loyola College, Chennai

Date Written: August 25, 2023

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has been the focus of numerous contemporary business practices and academic inquiries. Stakeholders have become more involved in the affairs and operations of businesses as a result of the rise of corporate conflicts over time. As a result of pervasive pressure from their constituents, businesses must now allocate resources and personnel to the virtuous cause of effecting positive social and environmental change. Therefore, the intention of this study is to evaluate the impact of CSR on the bottom lines of the five most significant pharmaceutical companies in India. Regression analysis (which assesses the strength of a relationship between two or more variables) demonstrated that CSR Contribution (CSRC) and Firm Financial Performance (FFP) had no statistical relationship. Due to the investigation's narrow scope, its findings may not be indicative of the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. It is possible for future studies to include both medium-sized businesses and a variety of industries. Future research could compare the effect of CSR on FFP in two or more countries or two or more sets of advanced and developing countries, even among countries with distinguishable levels of economic stability, as this study only examines the relationship between CSRC and FFP in an emerging economy like India and only employs accounting-based evaluation techniques.

Keywords: SR Contribution, Firm Financial Performance, Indian Pharmaceutical Industry, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: G3,I30,

Suggested Citation:

Babu, Eldho and Joseph, Dr. N Maria, From Giving Back to Getting Ahead: The Surprising Link between Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Financial Performance of India's Top Pharmaceutical Companies (August 25, 2023). Humanities and Social Science Studies [UGC Care Listed Journal], VOL. 12 ISSUE (1) NO 8, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4552210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
S Abdulrahman
The influence of corporate social responsibility on profit after tax of some selected deposit money banks in Nigeria
Educational Research , volume 4 , issue 10 , p. 722 - 732 Posted: 2013
Z Achour , S Boukattaya
The moderating effect of firm visibility on the corporate social responsibility-firm financial performance relationship: evidence from France , volume 24 , p. 437 - 454 Posted: 2021
Y B Adeneye , M Ahmed
Corporate social responsibility and company performance
Journal of Business Studies Quarterly , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 2015
D Akinleye , F T Adedayo , M Akinleye
Asset of Selected Multinational Companies: A Granger Causality Approach
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
727
RANK
640,233
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies