Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reaction to SPACs' Voluntary Disclosures

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2023

Vincent Castellani

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Karl A. Muller

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

K.J. Park

Singapore Management University

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

SPACs are formed to combine with and provide a private firm public trading status and a capital infusion. Firms that enter the public market through a SPAC combination are believed to possess greater voluntary disclosure discretion than traditional IPOs as they obtain their public trading status through a merger. Consistent with regulators’ concerns, recent research finds that SPACs use this discretion opportunistically by issuing optimistic guidance. This study examines how investors respond to these disclosures. We find that optimistic projections increase retail purchasing, which is higher than that of institutional purchasing. Additionally, we find that investors partially see through the optimism and exit at the redemption date. Furthermore, we find that institutional investors increasingly divest their holdings for combinations with optimistic projections. Investors as a whole, however, fail to see through the optimism, as combinations with optimistic projections considerably underperform in the two years following the combination.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure; SPACs; revenue forecasts; retail investors

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Castellani, Vincent and Muller, Karl A. and Park, K.J., Investor Reaction to SPACs' Voluntary Disclosures (July 11, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee , J Ready
Institutional investor preferences and price pressure: the case of corporate spin-offs
Journal of Business , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 261 Posted: 2003
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
K T Allee , B Christensen , K Graden , Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: an analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , A Davila , G Foster , J Hand
Biases in multi-year management financial forecasts: evidence from private venture-backed U.S. companies
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 183 - 215 Posted: 2007
Load more
3 Citations
Chen Lin , Fangzhou Lu , Roni Michaely , Shihua Qin
SPAC IPOs and Sponsor Network Centrality
59 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2021 · Last revised: 19 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 2,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert H. Battalio , Robert H. Jennings , Mehmet Saglam , Jun Wu
Difficulties in obtaining a representative sample of retail trades from public data sources
59 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 13 May 2024 · Downloads: 712
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel A. Cohen , Kelly Ha , Sunay Mutlu , John Schomburger
Do SPAC Combinations Affect Their Peers' Financial Reporting Choices?
50 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
RANK
218,958
3 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies