Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Importance of ESG Ratings for Shariah-Compliant Companies Listed on Gulf Cooperation Council Countries Stock Exchanges

31 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2023

Sakthi Mahenthiran

Oregon State University

Tom Gjerde

Marian University

Junaid Ansari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The study examines the influence of Shariah compliance and ESG adoption on firm value and market liquidity. The sample consists of 531 listed firms from the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries.  Stakeholder and resource-based legitimacy theories are used to develop and test four hypotheses. The study finds that firm value is dependent on ESG reporting, shariah compliance, and the interaction between them and firm size. In addition, the findings suggest that more detailed ESG scoring negatively affects the liquidity of the shares traded. The study provides evidence to suggest that ESG, shariah compliance, and creditor monitoring are substitute governance mechanisms that affect the systematic risk of the companies trading on the GCC stock exchanges. The study’s contribution is to highlight the complex nature of the economic governance relationship between these variables that could hold back the development of the GCC stock exchanges.

Keywords: Gulf Countries, Shariah-Compliance, ESG, Market Liquidity, Firm Value

Suggested Citation:

Mahenthiran, Sakthi and Gjerde, Thomas and Ansari, Junaid, Importance of ESG Ratings for Shariah-Compliant Companies Listed on Gulf Cooperation Council Countries Stock Exchanges. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4552058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies