Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Mandate: A Study of Variations in Compliance Mechanism among Sectors

Heritage Research Journal, UGC Care Group – I, Page No. 117-125, Volume 71, Issue 8, August 2023, Impact Factor 5.31, ISSN: 0474-9030

Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Gouri Kalagond

Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women's University

Date Written: August 26, 2023

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility, initially a voluntary activity has turned into obligatory commitment towards society which in the future will turn into a strategic way of doing business. This progress in CSR has increased its scope for businesses and academics. The present study considers compliance to CSR mandate as the prime focus and analysis of variations in the compliance mechanism among sectors, is undertaken. It essentially analyzes the variations from the perspective of extent of adherence to 2% CSR mandate as per the Companies Act, 2013, using ANOVA technique. The study includes 235 companies, chosen from NSE NIFTY 100, NSE NIFTY Midcap 100 and NSE Nifty Smallcap 100. The companies represent 17 broad sectors and the study covers six years period from 2014-15 to 2019-20. To achieve the objectives of the study, 1,387 annual reports, especially CSR reports of the companies are thoroughly content analyzed. The findings of the study reveal that there are variations in the sector wise CSR performance mainly because of telecom sector. However, CSR should be considered as the indispensable part of businesses.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR Mandate, Adherence, Compliance, Sectors.

Suggested Citation:

Kalagond, Gouri, CSR Mandate: A Study of Variations in Compliance Mechanism among Sectors (August 26, 2023). Heritage Research Journal, UGC Care Group – I, Page No. 117-125, Volume 71, Issue 8, August 2023, Impact Factor 5.31, ISSN: 0474-9030, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
203
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies