Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Natural Disaster Risk and Firm Performance: Text Mining and Machine Learning Approach

70 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2023

Minh Nguyen

Florida Atlantic University

Ting-Tsen Yeh

Louisiana State University, Shreveport

Yuanzhang Xiao

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Shirley Daniel

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 26, 2023

Abstract

We develop a perceived measure of firms’ disaster exposure and/or preparedness equal to the number of words related to natural disaster events in the firms’ Form 10-Ks. We then link this measure to contemporary and future firm decision-making and performance. We find that this perceived natural disaster risk and the government-reported damages of natural hazards this year are negatively associated with firm profitability next year. However, the perceived natural disaster risk is not associated with sales growth and Tobin's Q ratio. Specifically, the perceived natural disaster risk negatively affects firm profitability in the services sector but not in the manufacturing sector. The firm profitability in the services sector is also negatively affected by the billion-dollar natural disasters in the same year. Finally, we find that advanced machine learning models robustly outperform linear regression in predicting firm performance under natural disaster risks. The main implication from this study is that we can employ textual data in financial reports to measure the perceived natural disaster risk and predict its effects on firm performance.

Keywords: Natural disaster risk, firm performance, Form 10-Ks, text mining, machine learning

JEL Classification: C45, C53, L25, M21, Q51, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Minh and Yeh, Ting-Tsen and Xiao, Yuanzhang and Daniel, Shirley, Natural Disaster Risk and Firm Performance: Text Mining and Machine Learning Approach (August 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4552483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,231
RANK
251,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies