Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Oversight and Bank Financial Reporting Quality

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 51, No. 1-2, 2024

48 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Dimitris K. Chronopoulos

University of St. Andrews - School of Management

Lemonia Marina Rempoutsika

The Open University - Business School

John O. S. Wilson

University of St. Andrews

Date Written: June 13, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of audit committee oversight on the financial reporting quality of US bank holding companies. To overcome identification concerns, we use Section 165 h of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires publicly traded bank holding companies with assets exceeding $10 billion to have separate audit and risk committees. We utilise a difference-in-differences framework where our treatment group comprises bank holding companies that were required to separate audit and risk oversight functions following the introduction of Section 165 h and our control group comprises counterparts that already had separate audit and risk committees prior to the passage of Section 165 h. We estimate the difference in the behavior of treated bank holding companies between the pre- and post implementation period of Section 165 h with the same difference in the behavior of control group counterparts and find that the separation of audit and risk committees leads to an improvement in financial reporting quality. We attribute the observed improvements in financial reporting quality to the increased focus of audit committees arising from a reduction in the volume and complexity of tasks undertaken following the implementation of Section 165 h.

Keywords: Audit committee; Financial reporting quality; Bank holding companies; Dodd-Frank Act; Loan loss provisioning; Board busyness

JEL Classification: G21; G28; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Chronopoulos, Dimitris K. and Rempoutsika, Lemonia Marina and Wilson, John O. S., Audit Committee Oversight and Bank Financial Reporting Quality (June 13, 2023). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 51, No. 1-2, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, non-audit fees and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
614,231
3 Citations
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies