Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty and Corporate ESG Performance

24 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2023

Lu Zheng

Southeast University

Zhibin Chen

Southeast University - School of Economics and Management

Abstract

Using the sample of Chinese A-share listed firms from 2020 to 2021, this study investigates the impact of EPU on corporate ESG performance. We find that EPU improves corporate ESG performance, and the results largely hold after a series of robustness tests. Furthermore, EPU has a significantly positive effect on each dimension of corporate ESG performance (environment, society and governance). In addition, we document that the positive effect of EPU on corporate ESG performance is more pronounced for state-owned firms, and firms with better internal governance, better external governance, and firms that are more financially-constrained. This study provides large-sample empirical evidence for the effect of EPU on corporate ESG performance, which provides implications for management to make use of corporate ESG performance in the face with uncertain economic policy environment.

Keywords: Economic policy uncertainty, ESG, Corporate sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Lu and Chen, Zhibin, Economic Policy Uncertainty and Corporate ESG Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4552630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4552630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
RANK
182,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies