Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Gender Bias in the Formation of Firm-to-Firm Transactions

NBER Working Paper No. w31616

63 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2023 Last revised: 24 May 2025

Yutaro Izumi

National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS)

Hitoshi Shigeoka

Simon Fraser University (SFU); University of Tokyo - University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Public Policy; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Masayuki Yagasaki

Tohoku University; University of Tokyo; Government of Japan - Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2023

Abstract

This study examines an unexplored channel of female CEO disadvantage: CEO gender bias in forming business networks. Using supplier-buyer linkage data from Japanese firms, we find that CEOs of the same gender are more likely to trade than those of the opposite gender, particularly in small and medium-sized rms. As most CEOs are male, this same-gender bias restricts the trading opportunities for female CEOs compared with their male counterparts. Our CEO survey revealed frictions that hinder cross-gender encounters, suggesting that creating venues to promote female-male CEO interactions could effectively achieve gender equity through expanding the business networks of female CEOs.

Suggested Citation:

Izumi, Yutaro and Shigeoka, Hitoshi and Yagasaki, Masayuki, CEO Gender Bias in the Formation of Firm-to-Firm Transactions (August 2023). NBER Working Paper No. w31616, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4553619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Adams-Prassl , Kristiina Abi , Emily Huttunen , Ning Nix , Zhang
Violence against women at work
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 139 , issue 2 , p. 937 - 991 Posted: 2024
Sumit Agarwal , Wenlan Qian , David M Reeb , Tien Foo Sing
Playing the boys game: Golf buddies and board diversity
American Economic Review , volume 106 , issue 5 , p. 272 - 276 Posted: 2016
Kenneth R Ahern , Amy K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Kate Antonovics , Brian G Knight
A New Look at Racial Profiling: Evidence from the Boston Police Department
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 163 - 177 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies