Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overselling Corporate Social Responsibility

Financial Management, forthcoming

Posted: 30 Aug 2023

Najah Attig

Dalhousie University; Dalhousie University

Wenyao Hu

Saint Mary's University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Department of Finance and Accounting

Mohammad M. Rahaman

Saint Mary's University - Sobey School of Business

Ashraf Al Zaman

Sobey School of Business, St. Mary's University, Canada; Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Date Written: August 28, 2023

Abstract

We show that firms hype up their corporate social responsibility (CSR) narratives during the turn-of-the-year earnings conference calls to project an overly responsible public image of their firms. This previously unexplored phenomenon does not appear to be related to past, current, and future CSR engagements and cannot be explained by observed time-varying firm attributes and unobserved time-invariant firm and CEO attributes. We find that the fourth-quarter CSR narrative hike is more pronounced among firms that are (ex ante) expected to do more corporate good as well as firms embedded in dirty industries, but less prevalent among firms facing elevated product-market threats. Although elevated CSR narrative is associated with positive short-term market reaction and lower near-term stock price crash risk, such behavior tends to reduce financial report readability and leads to lower equity valuation in the longer term. Our analyses suggest that CSR narrative hike at the turn-of-the-year is a pervasive phenomenon in the corporate landscape and may have valuation and governance implications.

Suggested Citation:

Attig, Najah and Hu, Wenyao and Hu, Wenyao and Rahaman, Mohammad M. and Zaman, Ashraf Al and Zaman, Ashraf Al, Overselling Corporate Social Responsibility (August 28, 2023). Financial Management, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4554396
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies