Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Appeal of ESG Versus Investment Performance

10 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023

Ming Tsang

University of Wisconsin - La Crosse

Adam Stivers

University of Wisconsin - La Crosse

Hesam Shahriari

Prairie View A&M University

Abstract

In this paper, we conduct an experimental investigation as to the extent to which a typical Amazon Mechanical Turk participant is influenced by the positive ESG characteristics of an investment. Our main finding is that the average participant in our online incentive-compatible investment game allocated more to a neutrally framed stock than to any of our ESG stocks, suggesting that many individuals are not strongly motivated by ESG in their investments. Overall, our participants were influenced much more by the stated possible returns and risk characteristics of the investments rather than any descriptive ESG information. Further, we separate E, S, and G into different treatments, finding that environmentally friendly company stocks were the most popular of the three, while corporate governance-friendly company stocks were the least popular. We examine various subgroups of participants based on demographic factors, ESG views, and ESG investing history and find that the effect of these factors on participants’ investment allocations was dependent on whether it was an E, S, or G stock.

Keywords: Socially responsible investing, retail investors, esg, investment game, experimental economics

Suggested Citation:

Tsang, Ming and Stivers, Adam and Shahriari, Hesam, The Appeal of ESG Versus Investment Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4554154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4554154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
RANK
880,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies