Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Familiness, Interests, and Opportunities: Reframing the Landscape of Family Business Succession

34 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Sudhir Mehta

Georgia State University, J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Fanny Lawren

Georgia State University, J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Richard Baskerville

Georgia State University

Date Written: August 28, 2023

Abstract

Family businesses play a crucial role in the global economy, yet the complex process of family business succession remains a significant challenge. Scholarly attention on the survival and successful transition of family businesses across generations has been substantial, although a comprehensive understanding of this phenomenon remains an ongoing area of investigation. Through an iterative process involving literature review, interviews, and data analysis, we sought to uncover the underlying factors that influence the succession process (Babbie & Mouton, 2001; Yin, 2017). Contrary to a predetermined interplay, our approach involved an exploratory examination of multiple attributes. As the study progressed, we confirmed that Socioemotional Wealth (SEW) is shaped by the interplay of familiness and interests (Gómez-Mejía, Haynes, Núñez-Nickel, Jacobson, & Moyano-Fuentes, 2007; Swab, Sherlock, Markin, & Dibrell, 2020). The cornerstone of our findings is that a high level of SEW requires the alignment of both familiness and interest. However, a robust SEW does not guarantee a seamless succession, thus prompting us to consider the missing link, which we found to be the concept of opportunity (Eddleston, Kellermanns, & Collier, 2019; Shane & Venkataraman, 2000). Our second finding reveals that a successor’s decision to engage in succession is rooted in the harmonious coalescence of familiness, interest, and the prospect of business growth. Our empirical cases unveiled diverse scenarios where these factors interacted, thus guiding the formulation of the Familiness-Interests-Opportunities (FIO) model. Our study equips practitioners, particularly founders and succession consultants, to devise tailored succession strategies that cater to the nuanced attributes of potential successors and contextual business circumstances. We provide deeper insights into the interconnected roles of familiness, interest, and opportunity in shaping the trajectory of family businesses.

Keywords: family business, succession, familiness, interests, opportunities, socioemotional wealth

Suggested Citation:

Mehta, Sudhir and Lawren, Fanny and Baskerville, Richard, Familiness, Interests, and Opportunities: Reframing the Landscape of Family Business Succession (August 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4554454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4554454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
R Babbie , J Mouton
The Practice of Social Research Posted: 2001
R L Baskerville
Investigating information systems with action research
Communications of the Association for Information Systems , volume 2 , issue 1 Posted: 1999
G Becker
Human Capital: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis with Special Reference to Education Posted: 1964
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
881
RANK
538,134
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies