Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Deficiencies and Audit Staffing

36 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2023

Sebastian B. Kuhn

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Jeroen van Raak

University of Amsterdam

Nina Schwaiger

Technical University of Darmstadt; LMU Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 28, 2023

Abstract

We analyze how engagement lead partners staff audits with types of internal control deficiencies (ICD). Previous literature suggests that audit teams react to the discovery of ICDs by increasing effort in order to keep audit quality constant. However, audit effort is a multifaceted construct due to the heterogeneity of auditor characteristics within an audit team. We argue that the hours worked by expert personnel, such as high-ranking auditors and specialists, represent a scarce resource for the audit firm. In the internal control setting, engagement lead partners are likely to use this resource when audit teams encounter wide-scope ICDs, such as entity wide and ITrelated ICDs. Using proprietary data on the audit processes of Big 4 audit firms in the Netherlands, we find evidence in line with this argument. When wide-scope ICDs are encountered during the audit, more audit hours are worked by expert auditors. In contrast, only non-expert auditors work more audit hours in engagements with narrow-scope ICDs, such as account level ICDs. In additional analyses, we find that the combination of expert audit effort and ICD scope is associated with audit outcomes and audit quality. Overall, we provide novel evidence on audit staffing in the presence of internal control deficiencies.

Keywords: internal control, audit effort, audit risk

JEL Classification: M42, M12, M50

Suggested Citation:

Kuhn, Sebastian B. and Hofmann, Christian and van Raak, Jeroen and Schwaiger, Nina, Internal Control Deficiencies and Audit Staffing (August 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4554202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4554202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
G S Bae , S U Choi , P T Lamoreaux , J E Lee
Auditors' fee premiums and low-quality internal controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 620 Posted: 2021
T D Bauer , C Estep , B Malsch
One team or two? Investigating relationship quality between auditors and IT specialists: Implications for audit team identity and the audit process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 2142 - 2177 Posted: 2019
J C Bedard , L Graham
Detection and severity classifications of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 internal control deficiencies
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 825 - 855 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
484,103
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies