Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Informativeness of DEFM14 and S-4 Merger Proxy Disclosures

63 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2023 Last revised: 25 Sep 2023

Todd D. Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Jingyu Xu

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and the informativeness of the most comprehensive disclosure throughout the merger timeline, merger proxy filings. We focus on two fundamental disclosure costs, proprietary and litigation costs, and find that an exogenous shock that increased proprietary costs (litigation appraisal risk) caused merging firms to decrease (increase) disclosure level and specificity and to increase (decrease) boilerplate disclosure. We further document that merger proxy filings are not significant information events with respect to investors’ expectations about the impact on the acquirer firm's value. However, abnormal disclosure or less boilerplate information in merger proxy filings provides new information to investors, as evidenced by the association between the disclosure characteristics and absolute filing date returns. Directly examining the impact of proprietary and litigation costs on the informativeness of merger proxy filings, we find proprietary costs (appraisal risk) decrease (increase) the informativeness of the merger proxy filing. The evidence suggests that the overall lack of informativeness of merger proxy filings to investors can be explained by high proprietary costs outweighing the effect of litigation risk and attenuating disclosure in proxy filings.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, merger proxy filings, disclosure, proprietary costs, litigation risk, informativeness

JEL Classification: G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Kravet, Todd D. and Xu, Jingyu, Determinants and Informativeness of DEFM14 and S-4 Merger Proxy Disclosures (September 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4556788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J M Barrios , T G Wollman
A new era of midnight mergers: Antitrust risk and investor disclosures Posted: 2022
I Ben-David , U Bhattacharya , S E Jacobson
The (missing) relation between announcement returns and value creation Posted: 2022
A Boone , B Broughman , A Macias
Merger negotiations in the shadow of judicial appraisal
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 62 , p. 281 - 319 Posted: 2019
B J Busheem , C F Noe
Corporate disclosure practices, institutional investors, and stock return volatility
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 171 - 202 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
484,103
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies