Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Double Agency Problem in Mergers and Acquisitions: An Examination of Advisor Contracts

Posted: 31 Aug 2023

Jingyu Xu

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 30, 2023

Abstract

This study explores whether the manager-shareholder conflict in mergers and acquisitions can cause managers’ failure to align advisors’ interests with shareholders through optimal contracting. I find acquirer and target CEOs, who lead the advisor hiring, prefer a completion fee (i.e., advisor fee conditioned on deal completion) when their interests diverge from their shareholders. Completion fees can expedite the deal negotiation but lead to deal pricing that is unfavorable to shareholders (i.e., lower for targets, higher for acquirers). One mechanism leading to lower prices and faster deal completion for targets is that, under a completion fee, target advisors prefer to select industry peers with lower valuation multiples than the target in their comparable company analysis. On the contrary, target advisors with a modified completion fee (i.e., a completion fee with additional conditions based on deal price and synergy) select peers with higher valuation multiples than the target. Compared to a modified completion fee, the acquirer (target) advisor’s completion fee results in a shorter deal length and a higher (lower) deal premium, conditional on the advisor’s relatively longer involvement in the deal process.

Keywords: M&A advisor fee structure, conflict of interest, strategic disclosure behavior, mergers and acquisitions

JEL Classification: G24, G34, M40, M52

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Jingyu, The Double Agency Problem in Mergers and Acquisitions: An Examination of Advisor Contracts (July 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4556840
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,068
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies