Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Cap and Compliance to CSR Mandate: Evidence from Indian Companies

Journal of Xidian University, An UGC-CARE Approved Group 2 Journal, Page No. 1614-1622, Volume 17, Issue 8, August 2023, Impact Factor 5.4 ISSN: 1001-2400

Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Gouri Kalagond

Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women's University

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

India, sensing the importance of corporate world’s responsibilities towards society and environment, became the first country to legalize CSR expenditures through Companies Act, 2013. This step has evolved CSR from voluntary to mandatory phase which has risen the interest and scope of study for academicians.
The present study considers compliance to CSR mandate as the focal point and examines variations in the compliance mechanism of companies based on market capitalization. It essentially analyzes the variations from the perspective of extent of adherence to 2% CSR mandate as per the Companies Act, 2013. The study includes 235 companies, chosen from NSE NIFTY 100, NSE NIFTY Midcap 100 and NSE Nifty Smallcap 100. There are 83 small-cap companies, 75 mid-cap companies, and 77 large-cap companies which are examined using ANOVA technique. The study covers period of six years from 2014-15 to 2019-20. To achieve the objectives of the study, 1,387 annual reports, especially CSR reports of the companies are thoroughly content analyzed.
The findings of the study reveal that the market capitalization does not bring about variations in the CSR performances of the companies. Market capitalization, being one of the important determinants of the firm’s size, indicate that all the companies whether belonging to small cap, mid cap, or large cap, comply to CSR mandate in uniformity.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Market Capitalization, Small Cap, Mid Cap, Large Cap.

Suggested Citation:

Kalagond, Gouri, Market Cap and Compliance to CSR Mandate: Evidence from Indian Companies (August 30, 2023). Journal of Xidian University, An UGC-CARE Approved Group 2 Journal, Page No. 1614-1622, Volume 17, Issue 8, August 2023, Impact Factor 5.4 ISSN: 1001-2400, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4556499
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies