Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Dividend Policy, Managerial Overconfidence, Myopia, and Investor Irrationality: A Complex Concoction

European Journal of Finance, 2023

56 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Abdullah AlGhazali

Dhofar University

Richard J. Fairchild

University of Bath - School of Management

Yilmaz Guney

Coventry University

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

Corporate dividend policy is a puzzle, especially when considering the effects of economic and behavioural factors. We develop a theoretical analysis of corporate dividend policy in order to analyse the effects of the complex mix of managerial moral hazard, overconfidence, and myopia on managerial incentives to increase or decrease dividends. Furthermore, we consider the effect of investor irrationality that drives corporate dividend catering behaviour. We investigate how this complex mix of economic and behavioural factors is likely to affect dividend policy. Our analysis provides a deep theoretical underpinning to understanding these effects and provides a basis for future empirical research.

Keywords: Dividends, value, managerial overconfidence, ability, myopia, catering, moral hazard

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

AlGhazali, Abdullah and Fairchild, Richard J. and Guney, Yilmaz, Corporate Dividend Policy, Managerial Overconfidence, Myopia, and Investor Irrationality: A Complex Concoction (August 30, 2023). European Journal of Finance, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
531,260
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies