Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Estimate Fair Market Valuation for Court-Ordered Minority Shareholding Buybacks

18 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2023 Last revised: 12 Sep 2023

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

Lawyers, experts, courts and clients often face the tricky problem of how to find the fair market valuation of a court-ordered mandatory minority shareholding buyback? This paper explores various relevant factors that should be considered and included in any computations.

A scenario that frequently occurs in family, divorce, HNWI and corporate disputes is the mandatory court or tribunal ordered buyout of a minority shareholder (and often employee too) by the majority shareholder(s) or occasionally vice versa, leaving one original shareholder ex post with 100% of the target shares and the other original shareholder ex post with 0%. In the rare case where the relevant company shares are publicly quoted with liquid pricing, then a fair market price can be established for a marginal share sale and purchase, and an appropriate premium or discount then potentially calculated and used to adjust this price, to reflect the size of and differential market demand for the whole transaction tranche.

However in the much more frequent cases where the company shares at stake are unquoted, unlisted and where there is no liquid pricing available, then some form of bespoke pricing model will be needed to establish a fair price for the share sale. A typical question that arises in such cases is whether a minority discount should be applied to the share sale and purchase price, reflecting the lack of corporate control of the minority shareholder, compared to the majority shareholder (as typically argued for by the majority share owner and minority stake purchaser) arguably reflecting the situation just before any purchase, where the valuation process and proposed transaction conceptually starts.

Alternatively should the share price applied to the minority shareholding just be pro rata and the same price per share as the majority shares, reflecting the fungibility and interchangeability of all shares in the same class, just after any purchase when the valuation process and proposed transaction conceptually ends? Or perhaps some intermediate, hybrid pricing solution?

To explore and develop this question, this paper uses a simple corporate, minority and majority share valuation model The impact of standalone minority share discounts is considered, as well as the impact of any additional standalone fire-sale discounts (if applicable) and any buyout premia and status quo disruption premia that would be needed to persuade a more reluctant share seller to sell. The model also considers the impact not only of company assets and liabilities just before any share sale, but also of company contingent assets and contingent liabilities, which could for example be off-balance sheet and excluded from statutory accounts, but still financially highly valuable and significant. Furthermore the model considers these factors both just before, and just after the proposed sale, where there could have been intervening step changes. Various potential real life illustrative scenarios are also considered in the Appendix.

The conclusion is that while a minority share discount can be important, it is just one factor, typically “cherry-picked” and highlighted to the court by the purchaser, whose affect can be attenuated and even swamped by any required buyout premia and status quo disruption premia. Moreover these factors may well be further swamped by the expected change in company value via expected changes in both non-contingent and contingent assets and liabilities, following and flowing from the change of company control.

Depending on the degree to which either the minority shares seller or shares buyer is to receive the benefit from any expected change in company value flowing from the shares sale, so there will typically be a zone of potential agreement (ZOPA) and range of potential fair market share prices at which the minority shares could be sold and bought, with the court determining where in this broader range it would be just to draw the specific fair market price line. But the net result of this analysis can often be that a significant premium rather than discount needs to be applied to the prior pro rate calculated share price, if company value is expected to rise . Conversely, it can also be the case that the fair price of the sale could be at a significant discount or even zero or negative, if the company equity value is expected to fall in value significantly after the sale.

Finally, mutatis mutandis, the implication of including or excluding these additional valuation factors for corresponding ultra-high value post M&A disputes is also considered.

Keywords: ZOPA, family, divorce, HNWI, corporate dispute, buyout, minority shareholder, unfair prejudice, M&A, post-M&A disputes, fair market valuation

JEL Classification: K11, K12, K22, K36, K41

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, How to Estimate Fair Market Valuation for Court-Ordered Minority Shareholding Buybacks (August 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Inc , T Koller , M Goedhart , D Wessels
at h ps://www.amazon.co.uk/Damodaran-Valua on-Security-Investment-Corporate/dp/0471751219 and McKinsey & Company
Dark Side of Valua on, The: Valuing Young, Distressed, and Complex Businesses: Valuing Young, Distressed, and Complex Businesses , volume 3 Posted: 2006-08-22
M Bar-Hillel , E Neter
Why Are People Reluctant to Exchange Lottery Tickets?
Journal of Personality & Social Psychology , volume 70 Posted: 1996
D ; Blakeley , A Chen , O Obizhaeva
STOCK BUYBACK MOTIVATIONS AND CONSEQUENCES-A LITERATURE REVIEW
Petition by company member , volume 994 Posted: 2006
A Damodaran
Damodaran on Valuation: Security Analysis for Investment and Corporate Finance: 324 (Wiley Finance) Hardcover -Illustrated, 22 Aug Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
508,348
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies