Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Impact of ESG Performance on the Valuation and Profitability of Corporates in Comparison to Financial Institutions

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2023 - no. 152

101 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Juan Cordovez

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

Corporates and financial institutions are increasingly prioritizing and enhancing their focus on ESG factors, driven by the growing attention from shareholders, stakeholders, and regulators. After conducting an extensive analysis of the theoretical and empirical frameworks in this field, this study evaluates the individual effects of ESG dimensions and sub-dimensions on the profitability and valuation of corporates and financial institutions. The study results indicate a positive and statistically significant impact of ESG dimensions and sub-dimensions on the valuation of corporates, as evidenced by Tobin's Q. However, the financial industry shows that only the Environment pillar exhibited statistical significance with minor influence. Similarly, no overall impact on both sectors' profitability (ROE and ROA) is observed. Despite being statistically significant, the impact of three sub-dimensions on corporates’ ROA and the impact of the Environment pillar on financial institutions' ROA is relatively small.

Keywords: ESG Performance, ESG Ratings, ESG, Environment, Social, Governance, CSR, ROE, ROA, Tobin’s Q, Corporates, Banks, Financial Institutions, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, G32, G34, K23, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Cordovez, Juan, Analysis of the Impact of ESG Performance on the Valuation and Profitability of Corporates in Comparison to Financial Institutions (August 31, 2023). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2023 - no. 152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
698
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,815
RANK
84,913
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies