Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to deal with tax avoidance in sustainable finance ? Work out and assess new ratios for ESG analysis

24 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2023 Last revised: 3 Oct 2023

Greg Schneider-Maunoury

SPI CEPN Centre d'Economie Paris Nord; DEFIS IMPACT

Mathieu Joubrel

Valueco

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

This research aims at providing and understanding tools to assess tax avoidance in sustainable finance. Starting with the definition of tax avoidance, the paper explores the different views on tax provided by tax macroeconomics and the different phenomena related to tax avoidance and evasion. It then assesses the initiatives taken by investors on this issue and review the changes provided by the sustainable finance regulation, notably in the European Union. Then the methodological part enables to sort out 3 ratios in order to better understand the phenomena. The availability of the data is checked among 3 different samples (US very large caps, EU large caps, French small caps. 2 of the ratios enable to display the level of financial risk represented by tax avoidance among European listed companies. Last, in order to assess rightly the results provided by these indicators, a deep data analysis is achieved on the EU large caps sample. This enables to see that control variables (sector, country) have an impact but do not determine the tax avoidance strategy of a company. Some conclusions are drawn on the role of governments in tax avoidance and the way tax strategy may be integrated into ESG analysis.

Keywords: tax avoidance, sustainable finance, governance

JEL Classification: H26, H32, M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Schneider-Maunoury, Greg and Joubrel, Mathieu, How to deal with tax avoidance in sustainable finance ? Work out and assess new ratios for ESG analysis (August 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Aramide
Measures of corporate tax avoidance: empirical evidence from an emerging economy
International Journal of Business and Society Posted: 2013-12
F Berg , J Koelbel , Rigobon R
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
R Bregman
Comment le CAC40 répond-il aux investisseurs ? » ; January 2023 Frenchsif: Fiscal responsibility CAC40 Posted: 2019-06
M Gebhardt
Measuring Corporate Tax Avoidance -An Analysis of Different Measures
Junior Management Science , volume 3 , p. 43 - 60 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,083
RANK
472,791
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies