Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small and State Funded: An Empirical Study of Liquidations in Scotland

Forthcoming in the International Insolvency Review

22 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023

Jonny Hardman

University of Edinburgh - School of Law

Alisdair MacPherson

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: July 6, 2023

Abstract

There is significant scope for empirical research in the field of corporate insolvency law. This paper seeks to make a valuable contribution to this field of research. It features analysis of data regarding all insolvent liquidations in Scotland that had their end point within a period of a year, specifically 1 October 2019-30 September 2020 (even if the liquidations commenced prior to that period). A dataset was compiled using information from final accounts documentation for liquidations available from the UK's companies register.

Following the introduction, the paper provides background and context for corporate insolvency in Scotland, with particular reference to liquidation and the rules relating to creditors. The section also includes comparisons with the law of England and Wales. The paper then moves on to discuss the empirical methodology adopted and how the relevant data was obtained. This is followed by results and analysis focused on: the asset values of companies in the study, the lifespan of those companies, the timespan of their liquidations, the levels of liquidation expenses, the recoveries of creditors (including secured, preferential and ordinary unsecured creditors), and the role of HMRC in liquidations, as a petitioner and in terms of paying liquidation expenses. The paper contains a number of significant findings regarding each of these matters. It supports the case for a streamlined liquidation procedure for smaller companies and for the introduction of an official receiver in Scotland (while also justifying the existence of the official receiver in England and Wales).

Lastly, after the identification of some limitations regarding the analysed data, the paper highlights potential lines of further research building upon this study, including expanding the time periods examined, comparing the data for Scotland with data for other jurisdictions, most obviously England and Wales, and the consideration of corresponding data for other insolvency procedures.

A modified version of this paper will be published in the International Insolvency Review.

Keywords: Insolvency, Corporate Insolvency Law, Liquidation, Empirical Research, Scotland, Creditors

JEL Classification: K10, K20, K22, K30, K40

Suggested Citation:

Hardman, Jonny and MacPherson, Alisdair, Small and State Funded: An Empirical Study of Liquidations in Scotland (July 6, 2023). Forthcoming in the International Insolvency Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
RANK
605,468
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies