Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Covid-19-related Disclosures by Listed Firms in Vietnam

Hoang, T.T.T. and Nguyen, H.C. (2023), 'COVID-19-related disclosures by listed firms in Vietnam', Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 21 No. 4, pp. 916-935. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-04-2023-0204

Posted: 6 Sep 2023

Nguyen Huu Cuong

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Thanh Thanh Hoang

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to measure the COVID-19-related disclosure extent of listed firms in Vietnam and its associated factors.

Design/methodology/approach: The authors apply a previously developed reporting framework to evaluate the disclosures of 100 listed firms with the largest market capitalization on the Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh stock exchanges as of 31 December 2021. The disclosures were from integrated reports, annual reports, corporate governance reports and financial statements. The authors then used a regression model to examine the factors that influenced the disclosures, such as corporate governance, ownership concentration and firm profiles.

Findings: The research results reveal that the extent of COVID-19-related disclosure in Vietnam is relatively low. It also finds that the audit committee, firm size, age and industry are positively associated with the extent of COVID-19-related disclosure.

Originality/value: To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this study is the first to examine COVID-19-related disclosures of listed companies in Vietnam and their determinants. It contributes significantly to the empirical evidence in this field. The findings of this study can help corporate managers and policymakers to improve information disclosure practices during future financial crises.

Keywords: COVID-19-related disclosure; Corporate governance; Ownership concentration; Influencing factor; Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G30

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Cuong Huu and Hoang, Thanh Thanh Thi, Covid-19-related Disclosures by Listed Firms in Vietnam (September 1, 2023). Hoang, T.T.T. and Nguyen, H.C. (2023), 'COVID-19-related disclosures by listed firms in Vietnam', Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 21 No. 4, pp. 916-935. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-04-2023-0204, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558484
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies