Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing of Sustainability-Linked Bonds

45 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 8 May 2024

Peter Feldhütter

Copenhagen Business School

Kristoffer Halskov

Copenhagen Business School

Arthur Krebbers

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine the pricing of sustainability-linked bonds (SLBs), where the cash flows depend on the bond issuer achieving one or more Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) goals. Investors are willing to accept a 1-2bps lower yield due to the bond's ESG label, providing evidence of investors caring about environmental impact. Furthermore, we find the average probability of missing the target is 14%-39% so firms set ESG targets that are easy to reach. We find that the SLB market is efficient: the prices of SLBs depend strongly on the size of the potential penalty and there is no evidence of mispricing. Finally, our results suggest that SLBs serve as financial hedges against ESG risk.

Keywords: ESG, Sustainability-linked bond, Corporate bonds, Step-up coupon, Sustainium

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Feldhütter, Peter and Halskov, Kristoffer and Krebbers, Arthur, Pricing of Sustainability-Linked Bonds (September 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4558861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
824
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,623
RANK
68,309
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies