Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Use of In-House Internal Audit Functions in New Zealand

Meditari Accountancy Research, 31(3), 762-785. DOI: 10.1108/MEDAR-03-2020-0803.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 5 Sep 2023

Nishaal Prasad

The University of Auckland

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Lina Zixuan Li

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this study is to examine which factors explain the use of an in-house internal audit function (IAF) in a voluntary setting.

Design/methodology/approach
Based on the foundations of agency and resource-based theory, this study examines a unique data set from the New Zealand setting, which combines information obtained from The Institute of Internal Auditors of New Zealand with empirical firm data collected from publicly available sources. Multivariate analysis is performed to test the prediction that in-house IAF use is associated with factors such as strong corporate governance, firm size, risk, complexity and firm ownership structure.

Findings
There is strong evidence that larger organisations are more likely to use an in-house IAF. The authors also find that listed firms and organisations that use a Big Four auditor are less likely to use in-house-based IAF. The authors learn that the IAF investment decision is dominantly influenced by a firm’s ability to fund an in-house IAF as compared to the IAF being used as a resource to improve firm performance to achieve sustained competitive advantage. This implies that IAFs need to ensure cost efficiency and eliminate unnecessary overheads and demonstrate and make visible the benefits the function offers to the host organisation.

Originality/value
The unique New Zealand setting, where the establishment and use of an IAF are voluntary, provides an environment to study factors that promote demand for internal audit services. Research implications are applicable to most parts of the world, including the UK, EU nations and the Asia-Pacific region, where IAF use is voluntary.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-03-2020-0803

Keywords: Internal auditing, Assurance, Corporate governance, New Zealand, Auditing, Quantitative research

Suggested Citation:

Prasad, Nishaal and Hay, David and Li, Lina Zixuan, Use of In-House Internal Audit Functions in New Zealand ( 2023). Meditari Accountancy Research, 31(3), 762-785. DOI: 10.1108/MEDAR-03-2020-0803., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4559833
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies