Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of Cybersecurity Disclosure in Canada

56 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023 Last revised: 14 Nov 2024

Maryam Firoozi

Carleton University - Eric Sprott School of Business

Sana Mohsni

Carleton University - Sprott School of Business

Date Written: August 21, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we investigate cybersecurity disclosure practices of a randomly selected sample of firms listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange from 2014 to 2020. Our results, based on an in-depth content analysis of corporate reports, show a steady increase in the number of firms that disclose cybersecurity-related information and in the level of such disclosures over time. While the disclosures have increased after the Canadian Securities Administrators issued guidelines for cybersecurity disclosure in 2017, the improvements in disclosure cannot be solely attributed to this policy. Despite the steady increases over time, there is a lot of room for improvement in critical areas of governance of cybersecurity, measures taken to mitigate cyber risks, and cyber incidents. This study contributes to our understanding of how cybersecurity disclosure has evolved in Canada, a country with a principle-based approach to corporate governance and with a less litigious environment than the United States.

Keywords: Cybersecurity Disclosure, Cyber Risks, IT Governance, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Firoozi, Maryam and Mohsni, Sana, Evolution of Cybersecurity Disclosure in Canada (August 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4559167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4559167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
M Ashraf
Potentially unintended consequences of the SEC restricting managerial discretion: Evidence from peer data breaches and cyber risk factors Posted: 2021
M Ashraf
The role of peer events in corporate governance: Evidence from data breaches
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2022
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
RANK
517,938
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies