Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Herding Behavior and the Dynamics of ESG Performance in the European Banking Industry

15 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2023

QISHU WANG

Seoul National University

Abstract

We investigate the dynamics of ESG performance and explore the potential driving force, including the role of herd behavior among banks. Utilizing Phillips and Sul (2007)'s panel data convergence model and data from the 'EURO STOXX Banks index,' we identify a significant divergence in ESG performance followed by convergence towards separate clusters or clubs after 2018. Notably, Banks with lower Return on Equity (ROE) and leverage demonstrate herding tendencies towards improved ESG performance, emphasizing sustainability objectives and community ties. The study contributes to understanding the potential driving forces behind ESG convergence among EU banks.

Keywords: ESGEuropean bankingPanel convergencePhillip and Sul convergence method

Suggested Citation:

WANG, QISHU, Herding Behavior and the Dynamics of ESG Performance in the European Banking Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4560077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
RANK
427,290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies