Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Compliance Systems? The Evolution of Internal Control Through the Accounting Literature

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023

Enrique Mesa-Pérez

Universidad Loyola Andalucía

Date Written: July 28, 2023

Abstract

Compliance systems aim to prevent the commission of fraud and corruption by promoting internal procedures and ethical behavior among individuals. Therefore, this research analyzes how the existing accounting literature examines the evolution of internal control and how it can reflect the implementation of compliance systems' features. The starting presumption of this research is that compliance systems result from a process of audit implosion in which the characteristics of the audit society influence the organization's internal control. New regulations like Sarbanes-Oxley, the COSO Framework, or the compliance regulation of European countries turned firms out-inside by requiring internal assurance about the effectiveness of their internal control. Compliance can be considered the last step within the evolution of internal control, acquiring a self-oversight and ethical perspective. This paper contributes to the accounting literature by showing that the study of compliance systems can foster the bridge between two trends within the accounting literature: management control and risk management. This research argues that recent regulations supposed the connection of two separated trends in the literature as the interactions and relations are now a risk to be managed.

Keywords: Accounting, risk management, compliance system, internal control, conceptual analysis

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Mesa-Pérez, Enrique, The Rise of Compliance Systems? The Evolution of Internal Control Through the Accounting Literature (July 28, 2023). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
342,507
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies