Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Announcements in China: Overnight-Intraday Disparity

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023

Junhao Liu

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Danqi Hu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 3, 2023

Abstract

Based on a unique arrangement of trading and disclosure times around earnings announcements in the Chinese stock market, we provide evidence of a striking overnight-intraday disparity in terms of the reaction to earnings news. Specifically, we find that the overnight period exhibits a strong and consistent reaction to earnings announcements, whereas the intraday period trades against both the earnings news and the prior market reaction during the overnight period. In addition, we show that abnormal overnight returns on earnings announcement days exhibit strong predictability for future stock returns, consistent with the overnight returns containing value-relevant signals. In contrast, we observe no return predictability for abnormal intraday returns on earnings announcement days, which as a result, also undermines the return predictability of abnormal daily returns. We propose possible explanations for the overnight-intraday disparity. We conclude that the differences in trading mechanisms between the two periods as well as in investor composition likely drive the phenomenon.

Keywords: Earnings News, Earnings Announcements, Overnight Returns, Intraday Returns, China

JEL Classification: G10, G30, G31, G32, G34, G38, M10, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Junhao and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Hu, Danqi, Earnings Announcements in China: Overnight-Intraday Disparity (September 3, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Trading mechanisms and stock returns: An empirical investigation
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 533 - 553 Posted: 1987
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further US evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
T G Bali , D Hirshleifer , L Peng , Y Tang
Attention, social interaction, and investor attraction to lottery stocks Posted: 2021
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
2 Citations
Jiaqi Guo , Xing Han , Kai Li , Youwei Li
The Nexus of Overnight Trend and Asset Prices in China
73 Pages · Posted: 19 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 25 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ming Gu , Yi Hu , Zhitao Xiong
Dissecting the Lottery-Like Anomaly: Evidence from China
49 Pages · Posted: 1 May 2023 · Last revised: 28 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 299
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
140,484
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies