Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Doing the Right Thing Doesn't Pay: Impact of Corporate Decisions on Russian Market Participation in the Wake of the Ukraine-Russia War

13 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2023

Constantin Gurdgiev

Monfort College of Business, University of Northern Colorado; Trinity Business School, Trinity College, Dublin

Joseph J. French

University of Northern Colorado

Seungho Shin

Francis J. Noonan School of Business - Loras College

Abstract

This study investigates the stock returns of firms that took corporate action against Russia following the onset of Ukraine-Russian war, using event-study methodologies. The findings indicate that the firms that opted to take action against Russia in the wake of the onset of Ukraine-Russian war experienced a downward trend in cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) on average. Furthermore, we find that the stronger the action taken against Russia the more negative the average CARs. These findings are contrary to the idea that investors reward strong firm-level ESG actions and are robust to the choice of firms and event windows.

Keywords: event study, abnormal returns, esg, Governance, Geopolitical risk, Ukraine-Russia war, sanctions

Suggested Citation:

Gurdgiev, Constantin and French, Joseph J. and Shin, Seungho, When Doing the Right Thing Doesn't Pay: Impact of Corporate Decisions on Russian Market Participation in the Wake of the Ukraine-Russia War. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4560086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
808
RANK
434,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies