Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Audits and Insider Trading in Cryptocurrency Markets

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4560339

49 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023 Last revised: 23 Jun 2025

Kai Du

Pennsylvania State University

Daniel Jiang

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Shuyang Wang

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

We study whether blockchain security audits are associated with insider trading in the cryptocurrency market. Based on audits conducted by CertiK from 2018 to 2022, we show that large holders tend to buy in the two weeks leading to the request of the audit and sell in the two weeks before the release of the audit report. Large holders’ abnormal trading is well-timed to make profits or avoid losses, and is more pronounced when the audit report identifies severe issues, when more issues remain unresolved, when information asymmetry is higher, when project owners have stronger promotion motives, and when ownership is less concentrated. Our findings suggest that the unregulated nature of blockchain audits may inadvertently create opportunities for insiders to profit from their information advantage. 

Keywords: cryptocurrency, blockchain audit, smart contract risk, informed trading

Suggested Citation:

Du, Kai and Jiang, Xin and Wang, Shuyang, Blockchain Audits and Insider Trading in Cryptocurrency Markets (June 01, 2025). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4560339, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies