Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the potential outcomes of standardizing non-GAAP financial measures: Evidence from the REIT industry

56 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 31 Aug 2025

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

K.J. Park

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 31, 2025

Abstract

The FASB has recently considered standardizing non-GAAP financial measures, based on the belief that doing so would yield a measure that either supplants or enhances firms' existing performance measures. We test this belief by examining standardization of non-GAAP financial measures in the Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) industry where firms report a “funds from operations” (FFO) measure defined by industry experts. Despite the existence of standardized FFO, we find that 78 percent of US REITs from 2007-2020 disclose unstandardized “adjusted FFO” (AFFO). Further, AFFO is more useful for investors than standardized FFO, which is inconsistent with standardized measures supplanting unstandardized measures. We also utilize the 2017 standardization of AFFO in Canada to examine whether standardization enhances previously unstandardized measures. We find no evidence that standardization of AFFO enhances the usefulness of Canadian REITs’ AFFO measures. Overall, we find no support for the belief motivating standardization. Our study raises questions about whether standardizing non-GAAP financial measures in the current regulatory environment will yield significant benefits.

Keywords: Standard setting, non-GAAP, funds from operations, FFO, adjusted FFO, REIT, FASB

JEL Classification: M41, M48, R30, G11

Suggested Citation:

Gee, Kurt H. and Park, K.J., On the potential outcomes of standardizing non-GAAP financial measures: Evidence from the REIT industry (August 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4560340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
B Baik , B K Billings , R M Morton
The effect of increased transparency on manipulation and value relevance of non-GAAP disclosures by Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2008
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale Effects in Capital Markets-Based Accounting Research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3-4 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
J W Bentley , T E Christensen , K H Gee , B C Whipple
Disentangling Managers' and Analysts' Non-GAAP Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,228
RANK
266,546
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies