Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Last Man Standing: Unintended Consequences of Multiemployer Pension Transparency

55 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2023 Last revised: 21 Jul 2025

Brian Monsen

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Andrew Van Buskirk

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 5, 2024

Abstract

In 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-09, which substantially expanded disclosures surrounding multiemployer pension plans (MEPPs). We study the effect of ASU 2011-09 on the underlying pension plans and document substantial impacts following the disclosure change. Affected plans are more likely to experience sponsoring employer withdrawals, thus concentrating plan deficits and imposing greater risk on the remaining employers. The observed increase in withdrawal activity is more extreme in cases where the newly-mandated disclosures reveal greater MEPP exposure at the firm level, suggesting the disclosures had a causal effect on withdrawal activity. We find weak evidence that affected plans shift toward riskier asset allocations and find no evidence that affected plans manipulate their discount rates to understate reported deficits. Our findings highlight the unintended consequences of increased firm-level transparency on the pension plans at the heart of those disclosures.

Keywords: Economic consequences of accounting standards, multiemployer pensions, defined benefit pension plans, disclosure, fair value, FASB

Suggested Citation:

Monsen, Brian and Sheneman, Amy and Van Buskirk, Andrew, Last Man Standing: Unintended Consequences of Multiemployer Pension Transparency (April 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4560064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Allen , R C Petacchi
Preparer opposition and strategic implementation of governmental accounting standards: Evidence from public pension accounting reform
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 7 , p. 4259 - 4282 Posted: 2023
D Anantharaman , E C Chuk
The economic consequences of accounting standards: Evidence from risk-taking in pension plans
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2018
C Barthelme , P V Kiosse , T Sellhorn
The impact of accounting standards on pension investment decisions
European Accounting Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2019
A Beatty , S Liao , J J Yu
The spillover effect of fraudulent financial reporting on peer firms' investments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 205 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
384,900
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies