Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Readability of Disclosures in a Machine-Readable World

57 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2023 Last revised: 2 Nov 2024

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Ben Wang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

While regulators emphasize the need for machine-readable corporate disclosures, we examine how improvements in machine readability of textual and numerical information affect the human readability of these disclosures. Relative to the 2009 XBRL mandate that required a separate XBRL exhibit of financial statement numbers and footnotes, the 2019 Inline XBRL (iXBRL) regulation improves the machine readability of both textual and numerical content throughout corporate filings. Utilizing the iXBRL mandate as a quasi-exogenous shock to machine readability, we observe a negative effect of machine readability on human readability. In addition, we document that following the iXBRL regulation, disclosures become less informative to retail investors, who generally have less ability to process corporate disclosures with machines and who are more reliant on human readability, and that they reduce ownership in stocks impacted by the iXBRL regulation. Further evidence suggests the reduction in human readability is driven by both lower incentive to allocate effort toward making disclosures human-readable and reduced attention to human readability. Our results are robust to a regression discontinuity design and an alternative difference-in-differences design. Overall, our findings indicate that improved machine readability has implications for the human processing of disclosures.


Keywords: Machine readability, human readability, retail investor, capital market consequences

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Wang, Ben and Weng, Liwei and Wu, Qiang, Human Readability of Disclosures in a Machine-Readable World (October 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4561569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4561569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic Complexity in Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
K D Allee , M D Deangelis , J R Moon
Disclosure "Scriptability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 363 - 430 Posted: 2018
K D Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product Market Competition, Disclosure Framing, and Casting in Earnings Conference Calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
A Amel-Zadeh , A Scherf , E F Soltes
Creating Firm Disclosures
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,127
RANK
4,804
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies