Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Extraversion and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-75

52 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2023

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Jenni Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Juha-Pekka Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of managers’ personality trait of extraversion on the voluntary disclosure of their firms. Our results from analyzing archival data from Sweden show that the extraversion scores of CEOs and CFOs obtained from psychological tests are positively associated with the voluntary disclosure scores of their firms. The effect of manager extraversion on disclosure is moreover stronger when managerial discretion or managerial job demands are higher. We also find that extraversion affects managers’ disclosure styles during earnings conference calls.

Keywords: extraversion, disclosure, managerial traits

JEL Classification: M41, G10, D91

Suggested Citation:

Eugster, Florian and Kallunki, Jenni and Kallunki, Juha-Pekka and Nilsson, Henrik, Managerial Extraversion and Corporate Voluntary Disclosure (September 1, 2023). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-75, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4561179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4561179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
469,965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies