Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Regulation Exposure and Corporate Cash Holdings

Posted: 28 Sep 2023

Jan Pieter Veerhoek

University of Antwerp; Maastricht University - Maastricht University, School of Business and Economics, Students

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of firm regulation exposure on a firm’s corporate cash holdings. Using a sample of almost 100,000 U.S. firm-years over the period 1993-2020, I find a significant and inverse relation between regulation exposure and cash levels. The findings are robust to a battery of different endogeneity tests: an instrumental variable approach, a propensity score matching, an entropy balance test, a quasi-natural experiment and omitted variable tests. In addition, the findings are robust to an alternative measure of firms’ regulation exposure and cash holdings. The effect of regulation exposure on cash holdings is mitigated by stronger corporate governance. Furthermore, the impact is more pronounced among firms that experience lower financial constraints, engage in increased lobbying efforts, exhibit lower levels of diversification, face heightened litigation risks, and operate within more concentrated product markets.

Keywords: Cash Policy, Corporate Cash Holdings, Corporate Governance, Corporate Regulation

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Veerhoek, Jan Pieter, Firm Regulation Exposure and Corporate Cash Holdings (September 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4561728
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies