Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Risk in Europe

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 526

58 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2023 Last revised: 23 May 2024

Nuno Cassola

University of Milan Bicocca - CefES; University of Lisbon - CEMAPRE

Claudio Morana

Università di Milano Bicocca; Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for European Studies (CefES); Center for Economic Research on Pensions and Welfare Policies (CeRP); Rimini Center for Economic Analysis - Europe ETS; Rimini Center for Economic Analysis - HQ

Elisa Ossola

Milano-Bicocca University

Date Written: September 10, 2023

Abstract

Climate change poses serious economic, financial, and social challenges to humanity, and green transition policies are now actively implemented in many industrialized countries. Whether financial markets price climate risks is critical to ensuring that the necessary funding flows into environmentally sound projects and that stranded assets risk is adequately managed. In this paper, we assess climate risks for the European stock market. We show that measures of returns spreads of green vs. brown investment might reflect climate risks and assets' exposition to systematic macro-financial risk factors. These latter factors should be filtered out to measure climate risks accurately. We show that climate risks are priced in the European stock market by focusing on aggregate, industry, and company-level data. We propose a market-based green rating procedure to evaluate non-transparent and non-disclosing companies for which ESG information is unavailable. We illustrate its implementation using a sample of over 800 non-transparent firms.

Keywords: Climate risk, environmental disclosure, macro-finance interface, unconditional factor models, asset pricing, European Union

JEL Classification: G01; G11; G12; Q54

Suggested Citation:

Cassola, Nuno and Morana, Claudio and Ossola, Elisa, Green Risk in Europe (September 10, 2023). University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 526, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4562028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4562028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Carhart
On the persistence of mutual fund performance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
E Chini , M Rubin
Time-varying environmental betas and latent green factors Posted: 2022
Eu
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) Posted: 2019
R F Engle , S Giglio , B Kelly , H Lee , J Stroebel
Hedging climate change news
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , p. 1184 - 1216 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
RANK
198,235
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies