Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Avoidance of Goodwill Impairments via Auditor Choice

Posted: 6 Sep 2023

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: September 5, 2023

Abstract

Decisions regarding the impairment of goodwill require considerable auditor judgment due to the subjectivity involved in fair value assessments. Given the negative consequences of goodwill impairments to the valuation of firms’ net assets, we examine whether audit clients preemptively shop for a more favorable auditor to avoid timely goodwill impairment charges, and if so, the conditions that give rise to these decisions. Adapting the “what if” methodology from Lennox (2000) to the goodwill impairment setting, we document that the avoidance of goodwill impairment via auditor choice is prevalent. This behavior is concentrated among clients where the CEO is more powerful, has greater equity-based compensation, or is overconfident. Our findings are also concentrated among clients with less expertise among audit committee members, during periods when investors are less attentive, and when the client’s investor base is less sophisticated. Moreover, relative to non-shoppers, clients that shop for an auditor are successful in delaying goodwill impairments for two years on average when they change auditors or for up to three years on average if they retain a non-industry specialist auditor. Although we do not find a difference in the frequency of goodwill-related SEC comment letters between shoppers and non-shoppers, auditors with more shopper clients receive more goodwill-related PCAOB inspection findings. We also find that shoppers pay higher audit fees and are more likely to have a goodwill-related critical audit matter in their audit report. Collectively, our study provides evidence that clients appear to preemptively dismiss or retain auditors to avoid recognizing goodwill impairments.

Keywords: goodwill impairment, auditor dismissal, auditor choice

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Felix, Robert and Seidel, Timothy A., Avoidance of Goodwill Impairments via Auditor Choice (September 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4562362
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies