Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics Culture in the Corporate Reporting Function, Financial Reporting Quality and Investor Reaction: Evidence from Australia

31 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023

Truc (Peter) Do

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law

Tran (Deborah) Ngo

Independent

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

Business ethics is the backbone to the successful operation of any organisation and the growth of the larger economy. Ethics pervades every aspect of conducting business, from marketing products to customers, honouring contracts with suppliers and reporting to shareholders. In this study, we develop a new and innovative method to capture the ethics level of the reporting functions of large Australian companies and document how it correlates with the financial reporting quality of these entities. The method is highly innovative as we use Artificial Intelligence (AI) to process information from a novel source of information from social media. Specifically, we collect employee reviews from the site Glassdoor.com and use our AI algorithm to read and process these reviews to assign an ethics score to each review (where a higher score indicates better ethics). The accuracy of the scores are validated by the researchers and the algorithm has high accuracy. We then use these scores to study their correlations with firms’ financial reporting quality and find that firms with better ethics scores have higher financial reporting quality. At the same time, investors’ reactions to the financial statements of firms with better ethics scores are also stronger.

Keywords: Corporate ethics, Financial reporting quality, AI

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Do, Truc (Peter) and Ngo, Tran (Deborah), Ethics Culture in the Corporate Reporting Function, Financial Reporting Quality and Investor Reaction: Evidence from Australia (September 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4564327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4564327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Y Cao , L A Myers , T C Omer
Does company reputation matter for financial reporting quality? Evidence from Restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 956 - 990 Posted: 2012
P Dechow , W Ge , C Schrand
Understanding earnings quality: A review of the proxies, their determinants and their consequences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 344 - 401 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
952
RANK
394,837
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies