Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Corporate Social Responsibility in Nepalese Insurances Companies

14 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Anjala Dhakal

Pokhara University

Date Written: July 8, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the impact of corporate governance on corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies. Corporate social responsibility is the dependent variable and independent variables are board size, CEO duality, CEO tenure, number of independent directors, audit committee, and foreign ownership. The study is based on primary and secondary data. The primary data were collected through structural questionnaires and secondary data were gathered from 20 Nepalese insurance companies. The data were collected from annual reports of the respective insurance companies for the period of 2014/15 to 2018/19, leading to a total of 100 observations. The correlation coefficients and regression models are estimated to test the significance and impact of corporate governance on corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies.

The study shows that board size has a negative impact on corporate social responsibility. It means that the larger the size of the board, the lower would be the corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies. However, there is a positive impact of CEO duality on corporate social responsibility. It indicates that the existence of the same person is in the position of both CEO and chairman leads to an increase in corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies. The result also shows that there is a negative impact of CEO tenure on corporate social responsibility which indicates that the longer the tenure of the CEO, the lower would be the corporate social responsibility. Similarly, the number of independent directors has a positive impact on corporate social responsibility indicating that an increase in the number of independent directors leads to an increase in corporate social responsibility. Likewise, an audit committee has a positive impact on corporate social responsibility meaning that the larger the size of the audit committee, the higher would be the corporate social responsibility.

The result also shows that foreign ownership has a negative impact on corporate social responsibility which means that if there is the existence of foreign ownership, then lower would be the corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies. The study concludes that better corporate governance has a significant impact on corporate social responsibility in Nepalese insurance companies.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, audit committee, board size, number of independent directors, CEO tenure, CEO duality, and foreign ownership.

JEL Classification: C12

Suggested Citation:

Dhakal, Anjala, Impact of Corporate Governance on Corporate Social Responsibility in Nepalese Insurances Companies (July 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4564433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4564433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
N Ahmed , Z Ahme , & A Usman
Determinants of performance: A case of life insurance sector of Pakistan
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 128 Posted: 2011
M Aktaruddin , M A Hossain , L Yao
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure in corporate annual reports of Malaysian listed Firms
Journal of Applied Management Account , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2009
Y Al-Janadi , R Abdul Rahman , N Omar
The level of Voluntary Disclosure Practices Among Public Listed Companies in Saudi Arabia and the UAE: Using a Modified Voluntary Disclosure Index
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 201 Posted: 2012
Y Al-Janadi , R A Rahman , N H Omar
Corporate governance mechanisms and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabia
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 25 - 36 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
682,509
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies