Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Sounds Good is True: Impact of CEO’s Vocal Attractiveness and Managerial Deception on Investors’ Preferences and Decisions

Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Nusrat Farah

Oregon State University

Sharif Islam

Southern Illinois University - Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Date Written: September 8, 2023

Abstract

We examine how CEO’s vocal attractiveness and word choices, truthful versus deceptive, influences investors reactions to the information presented through earnings calls and decisions. Results from an experiment show that investors are more likely to have a positive preference and make favorable investment decision when the information is presented by a vocally attractive CEO. We also find that investors prefer truthful earnings calls over deceptive earnings calls. However, we find that vocal attractiveness mitigates the negative impact of deceptive language used in earnings calls. We believe that the interactive effect of vocal attractiveness and word choices on investment preferences and decisions occurs as investors engage in heuristic processing to a greater extent when they listen to vocally attractive CEOs. Our study makes several contributions and is one of the first attempts to quantify the impact of CEOs’ vocal attractiveness on attracting support from investors.

Keywords: Voice; Investors; Deception

Suggested Citation:

Farah, Nusrat and Islam, Md. Shariful, What Sounds Good is True: Impact of CEO’s Vocal Attractiveness and Managerial Deception on Investors’ Preferences and Decisions (September 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4565391
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies