Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information in Fail-to-Deliver Short Sales and Its Implications for Research and Regulation

49 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Harrison Liu

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Edward P. Swanson

Mays Business School, Texas A&M University

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

When a short seller sells shares on day t (trade date) but fails to deliver those shares on day t+3 (settlement date), non-existent (electronic) shares are in circulation. Corporate executives and regulators often contend that high “fail-to-deliver” (FTD) levels indicate that short sellers are forcing a company’s stock price down by artificially increasing the number of shares in circulation. This study investigates three sequential research questions relevant to price discovery: Are FTDs information-based? How does the information compare to that in covered short sales (CSS)? Is the information due to stocks that are expensive to borrow (“on special”)? For each research question, we consider two types of information: 1) accounting and market fundamentals used in financial statement analysis and shown to be associated with stock prices, and 2) future returns, which incorporate a broad information set which includes fundamentals. We conduct analyses for two time periods, with different SEC enforcement rules and economic conditions. Our results show that FTDs are information-based, the information exceeds that in CSS, and much, but not all, of the information is due to stocks on special. Finding that FTDs are more information-based than previously known has important implications for regulating short selling. For researchers, FTDs provide a new source of data to study short sellers’ valuation information, including the extent that constraints on their trading limit arbitrage. Future research should consider disaggregating TSS into its FTD and CSS components.

Keywords: short selling; accounting fundamentals, arbitrage, trading strategies, fails-to-deliver, naked short selling, market regulation

JEL Classification: G1, G14, G23, K22, K41, M14, M43, M45

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Harrison and Swanson, Edward P., The Information in Fail-to-Deliver Short Sales and Its Implications for Research and Regulation (September 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4565030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4565030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
P Asquith , P A Pathak , J R Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
D M Autore , T J Boulton , M V Braga-Alves
Failures to deliver, short sale constraints, and stock overvaluation
The Financial Review , volume 50 , p. 143 - 172 Posted: 2015
N Bhattacharya , E Christensen , Q Liao , B Ouyang
Can short sellers constrain opportunistic non-GAAP reporting?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 391 - 440 Posted: 2022
M D Beneish , C M C Lee , C Nichols
In short supply: Short sellers and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 33 - 57 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
941
RANK
487,089
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies