Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intrafirm Transactions and Tax Haven Linkages: Evidence From Indian Manufacturing

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2023

33 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2023

Swati Verma

Institute for Studies in Industrial Development

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to assess the pattern and prevalence of intrafirm activities in foreign exchange transactions of foreign affiliates in the manufacturing sector in India. The related-party foreign transactions of selected foreign affiliates are analysed for two years, and the shares of financial payments directed to tax haven locations are identified to appraise the vulnerability of these outflow transactions to potential risk of corporate tax avoidance. A majority of foreign exchange earnings and expense transactions were found to be conducted within firms. The major part of intrafirm payments for the key expenditure types was made to various tax haven locations having different levels of tax avoidance risk. Close to half of all expense payments were traced to tax havens, with several firms reporting predominant shares of intrafirm import, financial or services payments linked to certain significant tax havens. The data indicate active involvement of foreign affiliates in India in the use of tax havens for foreign expense transfers, which could be motivated by tax avoidance aims. This tendency is noted to be high for specific channels such as services, interest payments and other miscellaneous transactions, suggesting that these channels may be used for transfer mispricing and tax avoidance strategies by foreign-affiliated firms.

Keywords: corporate tax, foreign direct investment, foreign affiliate, intrafirm trade, intrafirm transaction, multinational corporation, manufacturing sector, tax avoidance, tax haven

JEL Classification: F14, F21, F23, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Swati, Intrafirm Transactions and Tax Haven Linkages: Evidence From Indian Manufacturing (August 31, 2023). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4565864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Bhavana Acharya
All in the family
The Hindu Business Line Posted: 2014-04-07
Ali Ahmed , Chris Jones , Yama Temouri
The relationship between MNE tax haven use and FDI into developing economies characterized by capital flight
Transnational Corporations , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2020
Raymond W Baker
Capitalism's Achilles Heel: Dirty Money and How to Renew the Free-Market System Posted: 2005
Esmé Berkhout
Tax battles: The dangerous global race to the bottom on corporate tax
Oxfam Policy Paper Summary Posted: 2016-12-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
759,678
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies