Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Non-Soes Less Tax Avoidance When the Government is a Minority Shareholder in China?

54 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2023

Liguang Zhang

Sichuan Agricultural University - School of Management

Yunxiang Liao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Yunchen Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Liao Peng

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

This study attempts to shed new light on how the state as a minority shareholder can affect the tax planning of non-state-owned enterprises(non-SOEs). We examine publicly traded non-SOEs in China and find that non-SOEs are more tax avoidance when the government is a minority shareholder, indicating that minority state ownership has played a "shelter effect" on tax avoidance of non-SOEs. Further analysis shows that the sheltering effect of minority state ownership is more prominent for firms located in areas with more social burden, worse tax enforcement and firms with stronger incentive to avoid taxes. Furthermore, non-SOEs with minority state ownership increase excessive capital expenditure and employ redundant employees, but still have higher firm value. Overall, our findings suggest the state as a minority shareholder shapes the tax-planning activities of non-SOEs in a “two-way favor exchange” manner and it is beneficial for non-SOEs to maintain a close relationship with the government in China where the government controls key resources.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Minority state ownership, China, Non-SOEs

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Liguang and Liao, Yunxiang and Wang, Yunchen and Peng, Liao, Are Non-Soes Less Tax Avoidance When the Government is a Minority Shareholder in China?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4567781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4567781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: Longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public policy , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
W S Albrecht , G W Wernz , T L Williams , A A Alchian
Fraud: Bringing light to the dark side of business: Irwin Professional Pub
Il politico , p. 816 - 829 Posted: 1965
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
M G Allingham , A Sandmo , K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency , volume 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies