Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing Owners

52 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2023

Gabriele Lattanzio

The University of Melbourne, Faculty of Business and Economics, Department of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Recent studies argue that institutional common ownership in rival firms may reduce competition in product markets. Yet, empirical evidence is mixed. I re-examine the theoretical foundation for this argument, documenting that competition in the asset management industry acts as a market-based disciplinary mechanism mitigating the adverse effects of common ownership. Empirical evidence supports the model’s predictions. While the cross-ownership network currently characterizing the U.S. market for corporate control is sufficiently dense to generate anti-competitive rents, institutional investors’ focus on relative performance causes these distortions to be short-lived and localized.

Keywords: Common Institutional Ownership, Competition, Asset Management, Herding.

Suggested Citation:

Lattanzio, Gabriele, Competing Owners. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4567880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4567880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
V Agrawal , N Daniel , N Naik
Role of Managerial Incentives and Discretion in Hedge Fund Performance
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 2221 - 2256 Posted: 2009
M Anton , F Ederer , ' Gine , M Schmalz , M C
Common Ownership, Competition, and Top Management Incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 Posted: 2023
J Azar
A New Look at Oligopoly: Implicit Collusion Through Portfolio Diversification Posted: 2012
J Azar
Portfolio Diversification, Market Power, and the Theory of the Firm
IESE Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
225,902
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies