Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Lobbying and Firm Performance

55 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2023

Alexandre Girard

UCLouvain - Saint-Louis - Bruxelles; Saint-Louis University, Brussels; University of Namur

Jean-Yves Gnabo

University of Namur

Rodrigo Londoño van Rutten

Universidad de los Andes - Management School; UCLouvain Saint-Louis Brussels

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Evidence are surprisingly mixed regarding the influence of lobbying on the overall firm performance. This paper documents that the sensitivity of these empirical results comes from the use of different measures of firm size. We assess the change in results using different proxies of firm size and replicating models from the corporate finance literature. The estimates show that the discrepancy in the results is driven by an omitted variable bias explained by the non-interchangeability of firm size proxies. Addressing the omitted variable concerns, our results report a positive association between lobbying expenditures and firm performance, within industry.

Keywords: Empirical corporate finance, Firm performance, Firm performance variability, Firm size proxies, Lobbying, Moral hazard

Suggested Citation:

Girard, Alexandre and Girard, Alexandre and Gnabo, Jean-Yves and Londoño van Rutten, Rodrigo, Corporate Lobbying and Firm Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4567881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4567881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
H Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
O Alkhazali , T Zoubi
Empirical testing of different alternative proxy measures for firm size
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 3 , issue 21 , p. 79 - 90 Posted: 2005
R E Baldwin , F Robert-Nicoud
Entry and asymmetric lobbying: Why governments pick losers
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 1064 - 1093 Posted: 2007
G S Becker
A theory of competition among pressure groups for political influence
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 98 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 400 Posted: 1983
Load more
1 Citations
Alexandre Girard , Jean-Yves Gnabo , Rodrigo Londoño van Rutten
Corporate lobbying and firm performance variability
Finance Research Letters , volume 58 , p. 104524 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
379,149
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies