Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Founder Certification Effect, Firm Disclosures, and The Cost of SEO Financing

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

67 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Yun Fan

University of Oklahoma - Steed School of Accounting

Xiaozhe Gu

University of Southern Indiana

Nandu J. Nagarajan

University of Texas at Arlington

Date Written: September 2023

Abstract

We investigate the effect of founder control on firms’ financing costs for seasoned equity offerings (SEOs). Firms issuing SEOs are subject to increased information asymmetry and associated agency conflicts. We hypothesize that founder control has a certification effect that mitigates such problems, and consequently, reduces the cost of issuing SEOs. Consistent with our prediction, firms with founder control enjoy higher abnormal announcement returns and lower SEO gross spreads. We also show that founder firms have better post-SEO operating performance than non-founder firms. Additionally, we document that the founder certification effect is more salient among firms with poorer pre-SEO operating performance and those that do not disclose specific use of the SEO proceeds. Finally, we show that founder firms do not increase the frequency of management earnings forecasts as much as non-founder firms prior to the SEO. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity analyses, and our conclusions are consistent with the founder certification effect.

Keywords: Founder, Seasoned Equity Offerings, Financing Cost, Management Guidance, Opacity

JEL Classification: G14, G32, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Yun and Gu, Xiaozhe and Nagarajan, Nandu J., The Founder Certification Effect, Firm Disclosures, and The Cost of SEO Financing (September 2023). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4567208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
O Altinkilic , R Hansen
Are there economies of scale in underwriting fees? evidence of rising external financing costs
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 191 - 218 Posted: 2000
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the SandP 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
487
RANK
856,579
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies