Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-thinking the Working Capital Management and Financial Performance Practices for Bigbend Planters Group Gower Firms, Eswatini

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal | Volume 26, Special Issue 2, 2022

17 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Thulsile P. Nkambule

University of Eswatini

Herrison Matsongoni

University of Eswatini

Emmanuel Mutambara

University of KwaZulu Natal

Date Written: November 11, 2022

Abstract

Grower firms in the Eswatini contribute to sugar production which is 59% of the country’s agricultural input. Sugar production contributes about US$285 million to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This great contribution to the economy requires grower firms to ensure liquidity at all times through working capital management. Prior evidence has indicated a relationship between working capital and financial performance. Therefore, this study seeks to rethink the working capital and financial performance practices by assessing the working capital management and financial performance by using a population of 86 grower firms from the Big Bend Planters group for the period 2014 - 2018 using both primary and secondary data. Financial performance was measured in terms of profitability by return on assets and return on investment capital as dependent variables. The working capital management was determined by cash management, inventory management, accounts receivable management and accounts payable management as independent variables. Data collected was analyzed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20 with the mean, standard deviation, Pearson correlation analysis and regression analysis as statistical tools. The findings from the study indicated that there is a positive relationship between working capital management and financial performance of firms. To enhance profitability, firms need to effectively manage their working capital. The study concluded that businesses collapse due to the inefficient management of working capital, therefore financial managers should employ sound working capital management strategies to optimize financial performance.

Keywords: Working Capital Management, Financial Performance, Inventory Management, Cash Management, Receivables Management, Payables Management

JEL Classification: M41, D24, E61, L25

Suggested Citation:

Nkambule, Thulsile P. and Matsongoni, Herrison and Mutambara, Emmanuel, Re-thinking the Working Capital Management and Financial Performance Practices for Bigbend Planters Group Gower Firms, Eswatini (November 11, 2022). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal | Volume 26, Special Issue 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4568157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M A Abdul-Hamid , N Sawandi , S Simon
Working capital management and firm performance: Lessons learnt during and after the financial crisis of 2007 -2008 in Nigeria
Indian -Pacific Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 50 Posted: 2018
G Afrifa , I Tingbani
Working capital management, cashflow, and SMEs performance
International J. Banking, Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2018
A Aktas , E Croci , D Petmezas
Is working capital management value enhancing? Evidence from firm performance and investments
Journal of corporate finance , volume 30 , p. 98 - 113 Posted: 2015
R M S A Al-Mawsheki , N B Ahmad , N B Nordin
The effects of efficient working capital management and working capital policies on firm performance: Evidence from Malaysian manufacturing firms
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
RANK
880,636
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies