Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Size, Capital Investment and Debt Financing over Industry Business Cycles

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023

Praveen Kumar

University of Houston - Department of Finance

Vijay Yerramilli

University of Houston, C. T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: September 11, 2023

Abstract

We find that capital investment and net debt issuance of large firms are, on average, more sensitive to industry business cycles than those of small firms, in stark contrast to the effect of size on investment-sensitivity to macroeconomic cycles. We theoretically examine the role of firm size on firms’ responses to industry shocks. Consistent with our theoretical predictions, we find that large firms exhibit greater sensitivity to industry cycles than small firms in their investment and net debt issuance only in industries with low cyclical variability of markups and production growth, high fixed cost intensity, high market-to-book, and high markups.

Keywords: Industry shocks, capital investment, markups, debt financing

JEL Classification: E32, G31, G32, L25

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Praveen and Yerramilli, Vijay, Firm Size, Capital Investment and Debt Financing over Industry Business Cycles (September 11, 2023). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4568413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
The Fall of the Labor Share and the Rise of Superstar Firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
J , J Salomao
Firm Financing over the Business Cycle
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 1235 - 1274 Posted: 2019
B Bernanke , M Gertler
Agency Costs, Net Worth, and Business Fluctuations
American Economic Review , volume 79 , p. 14 - 31 Posted: 1989
S Berry , M Gaynor , F S Morton
Do Increasing Markups Matter? Lessons from Empirical Industrial Organization
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , p. 44 - 68 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
RANK
398,904
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies