Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rebalancing disruptive business of multinational corporations and global value chains within democratic and inclusive citizenship processes

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 4

94 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2023 Last revised: 18 Oct 2023

Antonella Angelini

Pisa University

Al-Esia Zena

University of Bath

Ayse Yorgancioglu

University of Bath

Tim Bartley

Stockholm University

Nadia Bernaz

Wageningen University and Research

Flaviano Bianchini

Source International

Flora Panna Biro

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Ignas Bruder

Hertie School

Rachele Cavara

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Luciana Oranges Cezarino

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Andrew Crane

University of Bath

Elisa Giuliani

University of Pisa

Maria-Therese Gustafsson

Stockholm University

Tamara Horbachevska

Yaroslav Mudryi National Law University

Kostas Iatridis

University of Bath

Chiara Macchi

University of Wageningen

johanna mair

Hertie School; Stanford Center on Philanthrophy and Civil Society

Sébastien Mena

Hertie School

Anna Moretti

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

John Murray

Stockholm University

Federica Nieri

University of Pisa

Andjela Pavlovic

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Francesco Rullani

Ca Foscari University of Venice, Bliss - Digital Impact Lab

Olena Uvarova

Wageningen University and Research, Law Group

Francesco Zirpoli

Università Ca' Foscari Venezia

Date Written: September 12, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this working paper is to conduct a comprehensive review of existing literature that explores the relationship between business organizations and democracy. This review draws from various fields, including management, business ethics, sociology, international law, and other relevant disciplines for this Project and has several objectives. Firstly, it aims to provide insight into prior research on how democratic institutions regulate economic actors and how these actors, particularly large multinational corporations (MNCs), resist such regulation. Additionally, it examines how these economic actors develop behaviors and economic models that pose challenges to democratic governance, such as business-related human rights violations. In the initial part of the review, we delve into the historical and contemporary aspects of the relationship between business and democracy. Furthermore, the report explores how companies can contribute to shaping a more democratic future by addressing gaps in governance, especially in cases where populist governments fail to protect the rights of their citizens. It also considers the development of alternative business models, such as social enterprises and cross-sector partnerships. Moreover, it looks into how businesses can actively engage in democratic governance and promote principles of participation. The final section of the working paper involves a bibliometric analysis, including co authorship, co-citation, and keyword co-occurrence maps. This analysis is based on key references used by team members in their literature reviews and is designed to examine the connections that exist among various strands of research that support the research questions of the Rebalance Project.

Keywords: Human Rights, Lobbying, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Democratization, Democratic Processes, Multinational Enterprises, Democratic Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Angelini, Antonella and Zena, Al-Esia and Yorgancioglu, Ayse and Bartley, Tim and Bernaz, Nadia and Bianchini, Flaviano and Biro, Flora Panna and Bruder, Ignas and Cavara, Rachele and Oranges Cezarino, Luciana and Crane, Andrew and Giuliani, Elisa and Gustafsson, Maria-Therese and Horbachevska, Tamara and Iatridis, Kostas and Macchi, Chiara and mair, johanna and Mena, Sébastien and Moretti, Anna and Murray, John and Nieri, Federica and Pavlovic, Andjela and Rullani, Francesco and Uvarova, Olena and Zirpoli, Francesco, Rebalancing disruptive business of multinational corporations and global value chains within democratic and inclusive citizenship processes (September 12, 2023). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4569268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
319 References
K Abts , S Rummens
Populism versus democracy , volume 55 , p. 405 - 424 Posted: 2007
R V Aguilera , W Q Judge , S A Terjesen
Corporate governance deviance. Academy of Management Review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 109 Posted: 2018
G Ahuja , S Yayavaram
Explaining Influence Rents: The Case for an Institutions-Based View of Strategy
Source: Organization Science , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 1631 - 1652 Posted: 2011
M Akchurin , C S Lee
Pathways to Empowerment: Repertoires of Women's Activism and Gender Earnings Equality
American Sociological Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 679 - 701 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
521,283
1 Citations
319 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Economic Anthropology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies