Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Engagement with the Media

89 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023 Last revised: 20 Jan 2025

Rachel W. Flam

London Business School

Emily Shafron

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 02, 2024

Abstract

We survey 191 individuals responsible for public companies’ media relations and conduct 12 follow-up interviews to examine the role of these media relations officers in shaping corporate communication strategies and engagement with the media. Media relations officers indicate they are very involved in company messaging, including around important events such as mergers and acquisitions or changes in the senior executive team. We also find that one in four public companies hosts a quarterly conference call exclusively for members of the media in conjunction with the release of earnings, and media relations officers view The Wall Street Journal and LinkedIn as the most influential traditional media outlet and social media platform, respectively. Media relations officers are highly concerned with their companies’ reputation among investors and analysts, even more than they are concerned about their companies’ reputation with national or local media outlets. Finally, media relations officers are much more likely to post on social media when their company announces positive earnings news compared to when they announce negative earnings news. Overall, our findings shed new light on how companies engage with the media and what drives their corporate communication strategies.

Keywords: media relations, business press, social media, media strategy

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G14, L82

Suggested Citation:

Flam, Rachel W. and Shafron, Emily and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Twedt, Brady J., Corporate Engagement with the Media (January 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4570616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4570616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
J. Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor has it: Sensationalism in financial media
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 28 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
H Allcott , M Gentzkow , C Yu
Trends in the diffusion of misinformation on social media
Res. & Politics , volume 6 Posted: 2019
V P Baloria , K J Klassen , C I Wiedman
Shareholder activism and voluntary disclosure initiation: The case of political spending
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 36 , p. 904 - 933 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,032
RANK
106,324
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies