Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Misconduct and Government Contract Termination for Convenience

51 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023 Last revised: 11 Oct 2025

Ying Huang

University of Texas at Dallas

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Dongye Song

Calvin University

Xiaolu Zhou

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: July 10, 2025

Abstract

A prominent feature of government contracting is that the federal government has a unilateral right to terminate the contract for convenience if the termination is in “the Government’s interest.” We provide the first large sample evidence on government contract termination for convenience (TFC) and examine whether it can be triggered by contractors’ misconduct. We find that when contractors were penalized for labor misconduct in the previous year, their government contracts are more likely to be terminated for convenience. However, we find no evidence that contractors’ environmental or financial misconduct (e.g., accounting fraud), is associated with contract TFC. The effect of labor misconduct on TFC is stronger when the misconduct is more severe or recurring, when the contractor receives higher media attention, and when competition for government contracts is more intensive in the industry. 

Keywords: Government contracting, Termination for convenience, Corporate misconduct, Labor violations, Environmental violations, Financial Violations, Environmental, social, and governance (ESG)

JEL Classification: K2, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Ying and Li, Ningzhong and Song, Dongye and Zhou, Xiaolu, Corporate Misconduct and Government Contract Termination for Convenience (July 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4571294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4571294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E Alman
Financial Ratios, Discrimination Analysis, and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
C M Amantea , S C Jones
The Growth of Environmental Issues in Government Contracting
American University Law Review , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 1585 - 1636 Posted: 1994
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial Reporting Fraud and Other Forms of Misconduct: A Multidisciplinary Review of the Literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
174,026
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies