Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Effects of Non-Reliance Restatements on Retail and Institutional Investor Trading

57 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2023

Jason Bangert

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: September 14, 2023

Abstract

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission mandates disclosure to inform retail investor decision making. We investigate how retail investors, relative to institutional investors, process an important disclosure that indicates problems in previously issued financial statements. We find that both types of investors revise expectations about firm value and modify their investment decisions following non-reliance restatements, but the cost of processing non-reliance restatements is disproportionately high for retail investors. Retail investors tend to disagree regarding the implications of these disclosures for firm value, whereas institutions tend to draw similar inferences. Moreover, retail investors take significantly longer to fully modify their investment holdings. Tests reveal that a strong information environment can mitigate these differential effects and that retail investors process restatements more effectively when the underlying misstatement is common among industry peers. This study provides valuable insights for academics, regulators, and practitioners regarding retail investors’ ability to process this important accounting disclosure.

Keywords: Retail investors, institutional investors, restatement announcements, trading volume, trading consensus, disagreement resolution speed, disclosure processing costs

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bangert, Jason and Myers, Linda A., The Differential Effects of Non-Reliance Restatements on Retail and Institutional Investor Trading (September 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4571695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4571695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
S ______ , G W Athey , J M Imbens , Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
B B Ajinkya , P C Jain
The behavior of daily stock market trading volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 331 - 359 Posted: 1989
F Akbas , M Subasi
Corporate news releases and the profitability of retail trades Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,072
RANK
364,455
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies