Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEOs' Political Ideologies matter for Climate Disclosures?

62 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2023 Last revised: 26 Feb 2025

Marta Alonso

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Diana Castro Herrera

Institute of Sustainable Business and Organizations, Sciences and Humanities Confluence Research Center - UCLY, ESDES,

Walid Ben-Amar

University of Ottawa

Date Written: September 14, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the political ideologies of chief executive officers (CEOs) influence their firms’ narrative climate disclosures, drawing on upper echelons theory. We hand-collect data on CEOs’ political contributions in the U.S. and build a measure of political ideology. We find that firms managed by Democrat CEOs provide more specific climate-related disclosures than their Republican peers. Following a natural disaster, Democratic-leaning firms increase the specificity of climate disclosures in their reporting. Further, firms led by Democrat CEOs show more pessimistic climate disclosures following President Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris Agreement. The relation between Democrat-led firms and climate disclosure specificity is stronger in firms where CEOs have high managerial discretion. Our findings are robust to alternative disclosure specificity and commitment measures using the ClimateBert deep learning model and the use of a difference-in-differences analysis around CEO turnover to mitigate endogeneity concerns. Finally, we find that firms with Democrat CEOs are associated with lower carbon emissions. Taken together, our findings suggest that political ideologies permeate into corporate climate change risk disclosures and translate into real effects in managing climate risk. Our research underlines the importance of finding a consensus between politicians and corporations to reduce U.S. climate divisiveness and reach the net zero objective.

Keywords: Climate-related disclosure, CEO's political ideologies, Upper Echelons Theory, Carbon emissions

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M14, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Alonso, Marta and Castro Herrera, Diana and Ben-Amar, Walid, Do CEOs' Political Ideologies matter for Climate Disclosures? (September 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4571760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4571760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Arikan , M Kara , A Masli , Y Xi
Political euphoria and corporate disclosures: An investigation of CEO partisan alignment with the President of the United States
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2022
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
J A Bingler , M Kraus , M Leippold , N Webersinke
Cheap talk and cherry-picking: What ClimateBert has to say on corporate climate risk disclosures
Finance Research Letters , p. 47 - 102776 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
182,421
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies