Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Aggravating Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility on Spatial Inequalities in India

32 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2023

Pavan Nandhakumar

Independent

Date Written: August 3, 2023

Abstract

This research paper focuses on analysing the Corporate Social Responsibility expenditure of every Indian state/Union Territory from FY 2014-15 to FY 2020-21 to determine whether there is a spatial inequality in CSR spending. The study uses the respective CSR expenditure of each state/UT and reconstructs the Gini Index using unemployment and poverty numbers of each state/UT to plot a Lorenz Curve and arrive at a value for the Gini Coefficient. The final results demonstrate that there are considerable spatial inequalities in CSR expenditure, with a Gini Coefficient of 0.48. The study also provides more insight into how this issue can be resolved, by elucidating which states are the central reasons for the skew in spending. Specific states that are discussed regularly throughout the study include Maharashtra, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh, with Maharashtra exceeding the standard for CSR expenditure, and both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh falling deplorably below the standard. The study encourages more thorough government involvement in CSR initiatives to ensure these states reach relative equality in the near future.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), CSR expenditure, Spatial Inequality, Weighted Population Percentage, Gini Coefficient, Lorenz Curve

JEL Classification: D63, G30, R12

Suggested Citation:

Nandhakumar, Pavan, The Aggravating Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility on Spatial Inequalities in India (August 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4572960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4572960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Posted: 2018
A E Fordham , G M Robinson
Mapping meanings of corporate social responsibility -an Australian case study
International Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2018
A B Carroll
The Pyramid of Corporate Social Responsibility: Toward the Moral Management of Organizational Stakeholders
Business Horizons , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 39 - 48 Posted: 1991
H R Bowen
Social Responsibilities of the Businessman Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
592,557
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies