Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stick or Carrot: Does Exclusive Relationship with Government Banks affect Reporting Choices and Investments?

55 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2023

Harish Kamal

Indian Institute of Management Calcutta; Indian Institute of Management Udaipur

Date Written: April 14, 2023

Abstract

The extant literature suggests that banks play an important corporate governance role, and influence firms' reporting choices and investments. Yet, we know very little about how the government banks' (GOBs) multidimensional goals influence these important corporate control decisions. Using an exogenous shock that empowers banks, but heterogeneously affects incentives to increase the level of scrutiny, I find that firms that have an exclusive relationship with GOBs (henceforth, GOB firms) misreport, inflate their earnings, and over-invest compared to other firms. Moreover, there is no significant improvement in GOB firms' performance after the shock. Rather, there is evidence of a significant increase in risk-taking, which induced them to engage in precautionary savings, compared to that of non-GOB firms. Overall, these results suggest that the GOBs' multidimensional goals allow GOB firms to misreport, and engage in sub-optimal activities. This explains why GOBs end up with a risky set of firms compared to other banks.

Keywords: Government banks, Corporate misreporting, Investment policy

JEL Classification: G21, M41, G31

Suggested Citation:

Kamal, Harish, Stick or Carrot: Does Exclusive Relationship with Government Banks affect Reporting Choices and Investments? (April 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4572959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4572959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Banerjee , C Shawn , D Esther
Are the Monitors Over-Monitored? Evidence from Corruption, Vigilance, and Lending in Indian Banks Posted: 2008
A V Banerjee
A Theory of Misgovernance
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 112 , issue 4 , p. 1289 - 1332 Posted: 1997
A V Banerjee , E Duflo
Do Firms Want to Borrow More? Testing Credit Constraints Using a Directed Lending Program
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 81 , issue 2 , p. 572 - 607 Posted: 2014
O Bar-Gill , L A Bebchuk
Misreporting Corporate Performance. SSRN Scholarly Paper 354141
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
627,127
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies