Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characteristics of Cybersecurity and it Involvement by the Ia Activity

32 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2023

Christopher Calvin

University of Dayton

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen

Matthew Holt

University of Dayton

Abstract

We provide the first, large scale, global study on the characteristics associated with an internal audit function’s involvement in IT and cybersecurity assurance. Using a unique dataset of 1,142 survey responses, we identify internal audit development (i.e., level of maturity) and two characteristics of internal audit knowledge availability (CAE IT certification and external sourcing) as being positively associated with the performance of IT assurance, cybersecurity assurance, or both. Our findings are informative to academia, laying the groundwork for further exploration of internal audit’s engagement in IT and cybersecurity assurance. They are also informative to practice, as they provide insight to standard setters, practitioners, management, and governance bodies about characteristics that can enhance internal audit’s ability to provide IT and cybersecurity assurance.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Cybersecurity, IT Audit

Suggested Citation:

Calvin, Christopher and Eulerich, Marc and Holt, Matthew, Characteristics of Cybersecurity and it Involvement by the Ia Activity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4572560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4572560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing , volume 82 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
U Bantleon , A Arcy , M Eulerich , A Hucke , B Pedell , N V S Ratzinger-Sakel
Coordination Challenges in Implementing the Three Lines of Defense Model
International Journal of Auditing , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 74 Posted: 2020
J Boehm , N Curcio , P Merrath , L Shenton , T Stähle
The risk-based approach to cybersecurity Posted: 2019-03-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
RANK
644,694
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies