Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Relationship between Revenues and Recurrent Expenditure of North-eastern States in Nigeria

Posted: 20 Sep 2023

Habib Abdulkarim

Gombe State University; Gombe State University

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

The study analyzed the relationship between revenues and recurrent expenditure of North- eastern states in Nigeria with the specific objectives to determine the relationship between internally and externally generated revenue on recurrent expenditure of North-eastern states. The data was extracted from secondary source from the annual reports and account of the North-eastern states region of Nigeria and expost factor research design was employed for the study. The study hypothesized two research hypotheses while pooled ordinary least square regression is used in analyzing the data collected from the annual report and accounts of the sampled North-eastern states in Nigeria from 2009-2020. Recurrent expenditure was employed the dependent variable while internally generated revenue and externally generated revenue were considered as the independent variables of the study as proxies for revenues. The study found that both internally generated and externally generated revenues have significant positive effect on recurrent expenditure of North-eastern states in the Nigerian region. In view of the study findings, the study recommend among others that state governments in the North Eastern region of Nigeria should increase the size of their IGR so as to accommodate their total expenditure through diversification of revenue sources to explore other sources like the non-mineral sector as an option as this will help in bridging the gap between revenue and expenditure.

Keywords: Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), Externally Generated Revenue (EGR) and Recurrent Expenditure (RE)

Suggested Citation:

Abdulkarim, Habib, An Analysis of the Relationship between Revenues and Recurrent Expenditure of North-eastern States in Nigeria (June 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4573942
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies