Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Policy Uncertainty and Bank Systemic Risk: A Creative Destruction Perspective

53 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2023

Yulin Liu

Central South University

Junbo Wang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics and Finance

Fenghua Wen

Independent

Chunchi Wu

The State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo - School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We conduct an international study on the effect of climate policy uncertainty on bank systemic risk vulnerability using a sample of 616 banks from G20 countries. We find that climate policy uncertainty decreases bank systemic risk. This negative effect is stronger when climate policy is actively supported and in countries with higher innovation, greater climate readiness capacity, and more bank dominance in the lending market. Consistent with creative destruction theory, banks’ ESG investments, climate-related information disclosure, and prudent risk-taking are important channels of the climate policy uncertainty effect. The evidence helps alleviate concerns about financial instability stemming from transition risk.

Keywords: Systemic risk, climate policy uncertainty, creative destruction, ESG, innovation

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yulin and Wang, Junbo and Wen, Fenghua and Wu, Chunchi, Climate Policy Uncertainty and Bank Systemic Risk: A Creative Destruction Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4573594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4573594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
RANK
247,189
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies