Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Controlling Shareholders' Network and Excess Goodwill: Evidence from Listed Companies in China

32 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2023

Bruce Fu

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

Jinkun Yang

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

Jiajia Liu

Beijing University of Chemical Technology

胡 国 强

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

Using Chinese publicly listed firms from 2007 to 2020, this study empirically explores the impact of non-controlling shareholders’ network on the corporate excess goodwill. We find that the centrality of non-controlling shareholders’ network significantly decreases the excess goodwill from mergers and acquisitions, indicating that non-controlling shareholders’ network can restrain the goodwill bubbles. Moreover, the inhibitory effect of non-controlling shareholders’ network on excess goodwill stems from pressure-resistant institutional investors and individual investors. This effect is achieved through the information effect, resource effect, and governance effect. Furthermore, this inhibitory effect is more pronounced in firms located in less developed regions and legal environments, and firms with lower audit quality. In conclusion, non-controlling shareholders’ network plays a positive role in the restriction of excess goodwill in listed companies.

Keywords: Non-controlling shareholders' network, Excess goodwill, Information effect, Resource effect, Governance effect

Suggested Citation:

Fu, Bruce and Yang, Jinkun and Liu, Jiajia and 强, 胡 国, Non-Controlling Shareholders' Network and Excess Goodwill: Evidence from Listed Companies in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4573710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4573710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
K K Li , R G Sloan
Has goodwill accounting gone bad?[J]
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 964 - 1003 Posted: 2017
Z Guo , J Huang
High-quality Audit and the Goodwill Bubble of Listed Companies
Auditing Research , issue 4 , p. 80 - 89 Posted: 2020
Y Cai , M Sevilir
Board connections and M&A transactions[J]
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2012
Z Wei , C Zhu
Does Excess Goodwill Become the Burden of Corporate Operation --Explanation from the Perspective of Product Market Competitiveness
China Industrial Economics , issue 11 , p. 174 - 192 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
RANK
864,457
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies