Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Reporting Consequences of Last Chance Earnings Management

51 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2023

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Scott G. Rane

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: September 18, 2023

Abstract

Given its opacity and the timing of its closure, the tax expense represents a theoretically and intuitively plausible mechanism for managers to manipulate earnings in order to achieve performance benchmarks (i.e., last chance earnings management or LCEM). Although empirical analyses of effective tax rates are consistent with this behavior, its consequences are unclear. We investigate whether LCEM is associated with lower financial reporting quality. Contrary to our expectations, we fail to find evidence that LCEM is associated with tax-related restatements or comment letters, with scaled confidence intervals reliably near zero. In cross-sectional tests, we fail to find this association in subsamples where LCEM is more likely to represent impaired financial reporting quality. Additionally, we fail to find that LCEM is associated with reduced tax accrual quality. Collectively, our results caution interpreting reductions in effective tax rates to achieve performance benchmarks as indicative of impaired financial reporting quality.

Keywords: last chance earnings management, tax accruals, financial reporting quality, accounting for income taxes

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and Rane, Scott G., The Financial Reporting Consequences of Last Chance Earnings Management (September 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4574860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4574860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
A Barua , S Lin , A M Sbaraglia
Earnings management using discontinued operations
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1485 - 1509 Posted: 2010
E L Beardsley , M A Mayberry , S T Mcguire
Street versus GAAP: Which Effective Tax Rate Is More Informative?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1310 - 1340 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
427,290
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies