Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Certification of Corporate Governance Compliance Pay Off? Evidence from a Unique Regulatory Settings

Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12563

62 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2023 Last revised: 22 Sep 2023

Abdus Sobhan

Northumbria University

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Rushdi Md. Rezaur Razzaque

Independent

Date Written: September 18, 2023

Abstract

Research Questions/Issues: Using insights from agency and signalling theories, we examine the effect on companies’ market-based performance of a unique monitoring mechanism of compliance with a corporate governance (CG) code, that is, independent certification of compliance with a CG code and type of certification provider. Furthermore, we examine the impact of two boundary conditions, family company status and company-level information asymmetry, influencing the effect of independent CG compliance certification and type of certification provider on the market-based performance of companies.

Research Findings/Insights: Based on 1,110 Bangladeshi company-year observations from 2006–2017, we firstly find that independent CG compliance certification is positively associated with companies’ market-based performance. Secondly, we show that CG compliance certification by a chartered secretarial firm is related to higher market-based performance. Thirdly, we document that family companies attenuate both these associations. Finally, we find that, while company-level information asymmetry reinforces the association between CG compliance certification and market-based performance, it weakens the relationship between certification by a chartered secretarial firm and companies’ market-based performance.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Our findings are consistent with the agency and signalling theory that independent certification of CG compliance and this certification by a chartered secretarial firm reduce information asymmetry between managers and external investors by signalling enhanced credibility of reported CG compliance information. However, the roles of CG compliance certification and certification by a chartered secretarial firm to reduce agency conflict and provide credible signals are conditional on two boundary conditions, family company status and company-level information asymmetry.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: This study’s findings highlight the economic implications of a unique mechanism for monitoring compliance with an adopted CG code. The findings have significant implications for policy makers and regulators in emerging economies.

Keywords: Corporate governance, certification of compliance, chartered secretarial firm, market-based performance of companies, emerging economy

JEL Classification: G21; G34; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Sobhan, Abdus and Bose, Sudipta and Miah, Muhammad Shahin and Razzaque, Rushdi Md. Rezaur, Does Certification of Corporate Governance Compliance Pay Off? Evidence from a Unique Regulatory Settings (September 18, 2023). Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12563, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4574795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
A S Ahmed , M L Mcanally , S Rasmussen , C D Weaver
How costly is the Sarbanes Oxley Act? Evidence on the effects of the Act on corporate profitability
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 369 Posted: 2010
S Ahmed , S Uddin
Toward a political economy of corporate governance change and stability in family business groups: A morphogenetic approach
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 2192 - 2217 Posted: 2018
S Ahmed , S Uddin
Reflexive deliberations of family directors on corporate board reforms: Publicly listed family firms in an emerging economy
Accounting Forum Posted: 2022-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
RANK
812,529
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies