Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dirty Money. The Impact of Negative ESG News Sentiment on Dividend Consumption

40 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2023 Last revised: 28 Sep 2023

Marten Laudi

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Thomas Pauls

Goethe University Frankfurt

Paul Smeets

University of Amsterdam

Date Written: September 2023

Abstract

Using a large European bank dataset, we show that in response to negative ESG news exposing controversial business practices of dividend-paying firms, investors amplify their consumption from dividend income, compared to dividends from non-controversial firms. This increased consumption is immediate, occurring on the dividend payout day. We control for selection effects and rule out attention and adjustments to the dividend payout size as mechanisms. Instead, our results are consistent with laboratory evidence showing that people who earn money by violating social norms counter resulting negative emotions with mood-enhancing behavior, such as increased consumption. This aligns with the principles of emotion regulation theory. We demonstrate the applicability of emotion regulation theory outside of the laboratory in an important real-world context, financial markets.

Keywords: Behavioral Finance, Household Finance, ESG

JEL Classification: D14, G11, G41

Suggested Citation:

Laudi, Marten and Pauls, Thomas and Smeets, Paul, Dirty Money. The Impact of Negative ESG News Sentiment on Dividend Consumption (September 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4574351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4574351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A L Andersen , N Johannesen , A Sheridan
Dynamic spending responses to wealth shocks: Evidence from quasi-lotteries on the stock market Posted: 2021
A Anderson , D T Robinson
Financial literacy in the age of green investment
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1551 - 1584 Posted: 2022
E B Andrade
Behavioral consequences of affect: Combining evaluative and regulatory mechanisms
Journal of consumer research , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 362 Posted: 2005
M Baker , M L Egan , S K Sarkar
How do investors value ESG? Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,300
RANK
227,558
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies