Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short-Sale Constraints and Firm Investment Efficiency: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-139

55 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023 Last revised: 5 Dec 2023

Zhihong Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Siwen Fu

International Institute of Finance, School of Management, University of Science and Technology of China

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Date Written: September 18, 2023

Abstract

We examine the causal effect of relaxing short-sale constraints on firm investment efficiency using the experiment of the SEC Regulation SHO pilot program. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we find significant treatment effects of the pilot program on mitigating both underinvestment and overinvestment during the pilot period. These treatment effects disappear after the end of the pilot program. The effect on mitigating underinvestment is stronger for firms with severe financial constraints before the pilot period. The pilot program mitigates underinvestment and alleviates financing constraints more for pilot firms that experienced greater improvement in price efficiency after the pilot program began. The effect of the pilot program on mitigating overinvestment is more pronounced for firms with weaker governance and firms with more severe agency problems before the pilot period. These results suggest that relaxing short-sale constraints mitigates underinvestment through the external financing channel by improving price efficiency that alleviate financial constraints; and mitigates overinvestment through the managerial incentive channel by strengthening the disciplinary role of short sellers that enhances managers’ incentives to take correct actions.

Keywords: short-sale constraints, Regulation SHO, investment efficiency, underinvestment, overinvestment

JEL Classification: G14, G31, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhihong and Fu, Siwen and Wang, Ke, Short-Sale Constraints and Firm Investment Efficiency: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (September 18, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2023-139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4575443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
G J Alexander , M A Peterson
The effect of price tests on trader behavior and market quality: An analysis of Reg SHO
Journal of Financial Market , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 111 Posted: 2008
H Almeida , K W Hankins , R Williams
Risk management with supply contracts
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 12 , p. 4179 - 4215 Posted: 2017
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
RANK
572,087
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies