Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Climate Disclosures: A Tale of Two Venues

62 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Sanjay Banerjee

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Ailin Chen

University of Alberta

Minjia Li

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Vikas Mehrotra

University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis

Rajesh Vijayaraghavan

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: September 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine the determinants and consequences of firms’ choice between two disclosure venues, corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), for voluntary climate disclosure. We find that a firm’s CDP disclosure is positively associated with its prior CSR disclosure, but not vice versa. Firms with prior CSR disclosure are less likely to disclose to the CDP when they have more climate-related shareholder resolutions, greater emissions and tighter financial constraints. Following their first-time CDP disclosure, firms experience higher liquidity, ESG ratings, analyst coverage, and lower emissions - although these findings apply only to firms without prior CSR disclosure. Overall, our results point to a hitherto overlooked strategic angle in firms’ choice of venues for their voluntary climate disclosures.

Keywords: Climate-related disclosure, disclosure venue, CDP, sustainability report, shareholder activism, Big 3

JEL Classification: G11, Q54, M41

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Sanjay and Chen, Ailin and Li, Minjia and Mehrotra, Vikas and Vijayaraghavan, Rajesh, Voluntary Climate Disclosures: A Tale of Two Venues (September 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4575733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4575733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The Big 3 and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
S Alok , N Kumar , R Wermers
Do Fund Managers Misestimate Climatic Disaster Risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1146 - 1183 Posted: 2020
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,456
RANK
240,099
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies