Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of Physical Climate Risk Estimated from Public News via Guided Topic Modeling

45 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Oct 2023

Thomas Dangl

Vienna University of Technology

Michael Halling

University of Luxembourg

Stefan Salbrechter

Deka Investment GmbH; Vienna University of Technology

Date Written: October 11, 2025

Abstract

We develop a novel guided topic-modeling algorithm using vector word embeddings from a self-trained Word2vec model, GTM_w2v, which is fast and flexible, while allowing for a user-controlled topic specification. It follows an unsupervised learning approach and, thus, does not require any labeled training dataset. We use GTM_w2v to estimate firm-specific exposures to physical climate risk from public news covering a 25-year period and determine these exposures in two different ways: first, directly from the news for the smaller sample of firms covered in the news, and second, from a beta-based approach relying on a self-constructed climate-risk factor for the universe of US stocks. Exploiting the comprehensive news history and the large cross-section of US stocks, we show the plausibility of the proposed climate-risk related measures and uncover a positive and statistically significant risk premium associated with physical climate risk, in contrast to existing studies using alternative empirical methodologies. This risk premium is economically meaningful, comparable to risk premium estimates of traditional risk factors and robust to traditional risk factors, to sector and industry fixed effects, to different estimation strategies and sample periods. Notably, the magnitude of this premium has increased substantially in recent years, possibly due to more frequent extreme weather events and a rise in investor awareness.

Keywords: topic modeling, physical climate risk, climate finance, language models, machine learning

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G18, G32, G38, Q51, Q54, Q55

Suggested Citation:

Dangl, Thomas and Halling, Michael and Salbrechter, Stefan, The Price of Physical Climate Risk Estimated from Public News via Guided Topic Modeling (October 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4575999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4575999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
300 400 500 600 700 800 900 Mkt-Rf High Phys. Climate Risk Low Phys. Climate Risk (a) Posted: 2002
Note: * p<0.1; * * p<0.05; * * * p<0
V V References Acharya , T Johnson , S Sundaresan , T Tomunen
Is physical climate risk priced? Evidence from regional variation in exposure to heat stress
National Bureau of Economic Research , volume 30445 Posted: 2022
J M Addoum , D T Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and establishment sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,155
RANK
151,074
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies