Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Flexibility, Capacity Investment, and Inventory Levels

Productions and Operations Management, Forthcoming

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2023/56/TOM

31 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023 Last revised: 18 Oct 2023

Karca Aral

Syracuse University - Department of Supply Chain Management

Erasmo Giambona

Syracuse University - Whitman School of Management - Finance Department; James D. Kuhn Center for Real Estate

Luk N. Van Wassenhove

INSEAD

Date Written: July 18, 2023

Abstract

We study the effect of managerial time-horizon on two key operations decisions: inventory levels and capacity investment. On the one hand, we can expect operations decisions concerning capacity and inventory levels to be unaffected by any potential frictions between shareholders and managers, given that in theory they are both optimizable to meet the target service levels. On the other hand, expanding operations capacity requires significant financial resources, takes a long time to come to fruition, and faces demand uncertainty, hence investing in operations capacity may be deemed as prohibitively risky by short-term oriented executives facing shareholder pressure for higher earnings-per-share. For identification, we exploit a quasi-natural experiment (the staggered adoption of constituency statutes) that alleviated managerial short-termism by providing legal protection to executives adopting a long-term approach in their corporate decisions. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that, after the reforms, inventory and capacity investment increased by 5.2% and 15.4%, respectively, for treated firms relative to control firms. We also find that these increases are gradual and persist over time, suggesting that they are structural in nature. We further show that the effect of the reforms on inventory levels and capacity investment are stronger for firms with ex-ante higher level of managerial short-termism, such as firms with low institutional ownership. Performance also increases relatively more for affected firms with higher ex-ante managerial short-termism. Our results pass a battery of robustness and validity tests. Interestingly, while constituency statutes are intended to protect executives from short-term oriented shareholder sanctions, our findings suggest that these statutes ultimately benefited not only executives, but also potentially the long-term interest of shareholders.

Keywords: Inventory level, capacity investment, staggered difference in differences, managerial time horizon, quasi-natural experiments.

JEL Classification: G02; G30; G32; M14; M40.

Suggested Citation:

Aral, Karca and Giambona, Erasmo and Van Wassenhove, Luk N., Managerial Flexibility, Capacity Investment, and Inventory Levels (July 18, 2023). Productions and Operations Management, Forthcoming , INSEAD Working Paper No. 2023/56/TOM, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4576758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4576758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A Abadie , G Imbens
Large Sample Properties of Matching Estimators for Average Treatment Effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
E Adams , J Matheson
A Statutory Model for Corporate Constituency Concerns
Emory Law Journal , volume 49 , p. 1085 - 1135 Posted: 2002
A Adbi , C Chatterjee , M Drev , A Mishra
When the Big One Came: A Natural Experiment on Demand Shock and Market Structure in India's Influenza Vaccine Markets , volume 28 , p. 810 - 832 Posted: 2019
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
648
RANK
469,965
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies