Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Choice of Financial Advisors in M&As: Does the Counterparty's Earnings Management Matter?

59 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2023

Hsiangping Tsai

Yuan Ze University - College of Management

Hang Thi Dieu Nguyen

Yuan Ze University

I‐Ju Chen

Yuan Ze University - College of Management

Abstract

We study the role of financial advisors in merger and acquisition deals when a firm is concerned about earnings manipulation in its merger counterparty. We show that the likelihood of a firm hiring advisors increases as the merger counterparty engages in a higher level of earnings management. This association is strongly supported in the analyses on the acquirer’s advisor choice but tends to be weak for the target’s advisor choice. Furthermore, acquirers prefer hiring informed advisors who have prior banking relationships with the targets, especially when there is a heightened concern of earnings manipulation in the target firm. In addition, acquirers hiring informed advisors benefit by achieving lower premiums paid to the target. In a nutshell, informed advisors have an information advantage in offering advisory services to acquirers whose targets engage in earnings management.

Keywords: earnings management, financial advisors, M&As

Suggested Citation:

Tsai, Hsiangping and Nguyen, Hang Thi Dieu and Chen, I-Ju, The Choice of Financial Advisors in M&As: Does the Counterparty's Earnings Management Matter?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4578800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4578800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
394
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies