Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Co-opted Boards and Corporate Cash Holdings

52 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2023 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Abdul Ghafoor

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Birmingham City University

Imran Yousaf

Prince Sultan University - College of Business Administration

Zhichuan Frank Li

University of Western Ontario - Ivey School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 21, 2024

Abstract

We study the relationship between board co-option and corporate cash holdings. Co-opted board members are those appointed after a CEO assumes office and are often less independent and effective as monitors due to the CEO’s involvement in their appointment. We find that as the fraction of co-opted members increases, firms opportunistically hold higher levels of cash. The effect of adding one co-opted board member is comparable, in magnitude and significance, to losing an independent member. This agency problem of cash holdings arises once a board is co-opted, regardless of whether it is classified as “independent” based on conventional and legal definitions. We further discover that the abnormal cash holdings under co-opted boards are driven by motives for flexibility rather than precaution. The positive effect of board co-option on cash is more pronounced in financially unconstrained firms (so it is not for precaution) and in firms with high information asymmetry (where co-option is a more severe agency problem). Additionally, board co-option leads to a significantly lower marginal value of cash and reduced dividend payouts. Finally, we find that alternative governance mechanisms, such as institutional ownership and analyst coverage, mitigate these effects. We address endogeneity concerns using various methods, including exogenous events of CEO sudden deaths. 

Keywords: Board co-option, board independence, cash holdings, agency problem, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Ghafoor, Abdul and Yousaf, Imran and Li, Zhichuan Frank, Co-opted Boards and Corporate Cash Holdings (October 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4578724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4578724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
V V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
N Aktas , C Louca , D Petmezas
CEO overconfidence and the value of corporate cash holdings
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 54 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 2019
H Almeida , M Campello , I Cunha , M S Weisbach
Corporate liquidity management: A conceptual framework and survey
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 162 Posted: 2014
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
366,257
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies