Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspective on Accounting Measures’ Challenges When Merging International Firms Under Contingent Considerations

28 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2023

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: September 21, 2023

Abstract

In this paper I argue that accounting measures are considered a challenge to determine in a unified way when merging international firms under contingent considerations. Thus, I analyse and investigate the predictions for the contingent considerations by predicting the fair value of cash flow from operations contingency, and the fair value of capital stock contingency, that both might be asked by the target firm (the acquired firm) to be paid by the acquiring firm. Where such analysis and investigation help answer the major question of this paper regarding the accuracy and fairness of the predictions of the contingent considerations. I use two final regression models of significant R2 to predict the fair value of both cash flow from operations and capital stock contingencies, based on accounting information and other effective information, then I compare the prediction results to predictions resulted from using two probability weighted present value models recommended by the financial accounting standards board in this context. The empirical results show that all the models used are of different prediction results and errors, and there is no one unified model to rely on for the predictions required, as well as the issues of the trade-off and the conflictions between the target firm and the acquiring firm regarding which model’s prediction can fairly and accurately measure the contingency considerations. I recommend future research to expand my study for the purpose of covering this area of study and for breaking down the potential conflictions among firms regarding the consensus for the predicted contingent considerations.

Keywords: accounting measures, prediction models, merging decisions, contingent considerations

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Perspective on Accounting Measures’ Challenges When Merging International Firms Under Contingent Considerations (September 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4578658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4578658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
F A Beams , J H Anthony , B Bettinghaus
Posted: 2012
T A Elnashar
Is accounting information still a driver for global stock markets" Available at: SSRN Posted: 2022
T A Elnashar
Can investors' decisions be biased by the Impact of accounting information on cash flow from operations Posted: 2023
T A Elnashar
The risk of hedging fair value change of financial assets: An accounting perspective Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
332
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies