Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Investment: Assurance Service Substitution and the Value in 'Value-Add'

43 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2023

Christopher Calvin

University of Dayton

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Benjamin Fligge

University of Duisburg-Essen

Date Written: September 22, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates organizational benefits obtained from investing in internal audit activities beyond benchmark expectations. Practitioners frequently rely on benchmarking studies to determine whether their internal audit resources are sufficient, but there is no prior evidence on how deviations from the benchmark (specifically, above-benchmark investment) affect organizational value. We utilize a unique survey dataset and develop a new measure of investment in internal audit to explore this issue. Our results suggest that above-benchmark investment is associated with greater assurance service substitution, greater audit risk coverage, and a higher degree of external audit reliance on internal audit work product. Exploratory analyses also quantify internal audit’s value-add beyond assurance service substitution. Our results are of interest to organizations which must choose their level of internal audit investment, regulatory bodies like the Institute of Internal Auditors, which establish subjective investment requirements, and capital market participants that rely on the work of internal auditors in their decision-making.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Investment, Value-Add, Cost-Benefit

JEL Classification: M40, M42, G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Calvin, Christopher and Eulerich, Marc and Fligge, Benjamin, Internal Audit Investment: Assurance Service Substitution and the Value in 'Value-Add' (September 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4579731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4579731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
L J Abbott , B Daughtery , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Fee Reductions from Internal Audit-Provided Assistance: The Incremental Impact of Internal Audit Characteristics , volume 29 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal Audit Assistance and External Audit Timeliness. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
M B Adams
Agency Theory and the Internal Audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
484,103
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies