Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Activist Institutional Investors on Family Control of Publicly Traded Firms

33 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2023

Sharon D. James

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Erick Chang

Arkansas State University

Abstract

Shareholder activism seeks to alter the governance and management practices of publicly traded firms. For family-owned firms, adding outside investors increases the professionalization of the management team at the expense of family involvement. Using a sample of publicly traded communications equipment firms, we examine the nonlinear effects of institutional ownership on the active presence of the founding family in the management and control of corporate governance. The results are consistent with our predictions and provide a basis for assessing the trade-off the family makes between liquidity of their financial position and inter-generational goals. We contribute to research on how future generations of founding families can remain active in the firm.      Keywords   Family Firms; Shareholder Activism; Institutional Investors

Keywords: Family Firms, Shareholder Activism, Institutional Investors

Suggested Citation:

James, Sharon D. and Chang, Erick, The Influence of Activist Institutional Investors on Family Control of Publicly Traded Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4579239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4579239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L A Bebchuk , M S Weisbach
The state of corporate governance research
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 939 - 961 Posted: 2010
A Calabrò , M Cameran , D Campa , A Pettinicchio
Financial reporting in family firms: a socioemotional wealth approach toward information quality
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 926 - 960 Posted: 2022
M Carney
Corporate governance and competitive advantage in family-controlled firms
Entrepreneurship theory and practice , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 249 - 265 Posted: 2005
A M Bobillo , J A Rodriguez-Sanz , F Tejerina-Gaite
Shareholder activism and internationalization of the family firm
Journal of Business Economics and Management , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 867 - 885 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
596,846
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies