Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Reforms, Board Independence and Earnings Quality

Amin, Q.A., Cumming, D. (2023). Regulatory Reforms, board independence and earnings quality. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institution & Money, 88 (2023) 101840.

47 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023

Dr Qazi Awais Amin

Nottingham Trent University - Nottingham Business School

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the exogenous increase in the proportion of independent non-executive directors (INEDs) in response to the corporate governance regulations 2012 in Singapore and Vietnam to estimate the effectiveness of INEDs in restraining earnings management. We also investigate the moderating effect of two important characteristics of INEDs: education and tenure on the relationship between regulations 2012 and earnings management. Our core findings show that voluntary adopters with better INEDs education and optimal tenure experience a significant decrease in earnings management compared to mandatory adopters with lower of INEDs education and suboptimal tenure.

Keywords: Board independence, Earnings management, Corporate governance regulations, Board education, Board tenure

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Qazi Awais and Cumming, Douglas J., Regulatory Reforms, Board Independence and Earnings Quality (September 23, 2023). Amin, Q.A., Cumming, D. (2023). Regulatory Reforms, board independence and earnings quality. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institution & Money, 88 (2023) 101840., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4580936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
H A Abdou , N N Ellelly , A A Elamer , K Hussainey , H Yazdifar
Corporate governance and earnings management nexus: Evidence from the UK and Egypt using neural networks
Int. J. Finan. Econ , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2020
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
J. Finan , volume 621 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and Acc scandals
J. Law. Econ , volume 481 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
J. Acc Res , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
692,403
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies