Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Politician as a CEO, Corporate Governance and Firm Value

Amin, QA., Cumming, D. (2023). The politician as a CEO, corporate governance and firm value, Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 87, 101804.

42 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023

Dr Qazi Awais Amin

Nottingham Trent University - Nottingham Business School

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 28, 2022

Abstract

Using a data set of two important emerging markets namely Taiwan and Pakistan, we investigate an unexplored dynamic of the top leadership i.e. the politician as a CEO and determine their impact on firm value. We show that the presence of the powerful politician as a CEO tends to limit the board power and endorse managerial entrenchment i.e. put their self-interests ahead of the firm’s goals, which in turn, damage the firms’ value. We find a significant negative moderating effect of the political CEOs on the relationship of concentrated ownership, board independence and firm value.

Keywords: The Politician as a CEO, Agency theory,corporate governance, firm value

JEL Classification: C23, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Qazi Awais and Cumming, Douglas J., The Politician as a CEO, Corporate Governance and Firm Value (October 28, 2022). Amin, QA., Cumming, D. (2023). The politician as a CEO, corporate governance and firm value, Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 87, 101804., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4580858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4580858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
S Akbar , H Poletti , R El-Faitouri , Z A S Shah
More on the relationship between corporate governance and firm performance in the UK
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 38 , p. 417 - 429 Posted: 2016
R Al-Dhamari , K N I Ismail
Cash holdings, political connections, and earnings quality: some evidence from Malaysia
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 231 Posted: 2015
Q A Amin , S Farquhar , S
The relationship between corporate governance and firm financial performance: an empirical investigation of an emerging market
International Journal of Business Governance and Ethics , volume 152 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
453
RANK
453,964
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies