Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Content of Credit Rating Affirmations

Contemporary Accounting Research 41 (1): 645−678 (2024)

55 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Apr 2024

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Asad Kausar

American University - Kogod School of Business

Byungki Kim

University of Queensland - Business School

You-il (Chris) Park

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: September 22, 2023

Abstract

We examine the economic determinants and informational effects of credit rating affirmations (i.e., the reiteration of past credit ratings) for a sample of U.S. public firms from 1995 to 2020. We find that credit rating affirmations typically follow major corporate events and changes in firm fundamentals that increase information uncertainty about a firm’s creditworthiness, suggesting that affirmations reduce uncertainty. We further document that rating affirmations provide value-relevant information to equity and debt investors. Using a short-window event study method, we show that equity investors react positively to rating affirmations and that information uncertainty around affirmations diminishes. These findings are more pronounced for firms with non-investment-grade ratings. We further show that our results strengthen for firms with greater pre-affirmation information uncertainty. Finally, consistent with our information uncertainty reduction results from the stock market, we report that bond yield spreads decrease for affirmed firms. Again, the effect is more pronounced for firms with non-investment-grade ratings. In summary, we highlight the significant capital markets’ effects of credit rating affirmations, an area that the literature has largely ignored.

Keywords: Credit rating affirmations, Information content, Stock market reactions, Information uncertainty, Bond yield spread

JEL Classification: G14, G20, G24

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Kausar, Asad and Kim, Byungki and Park, You-il (Chris) and Zhou, Jian, Information Content of Credit Rating Affirmations (September 22, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research 41 (1): 645−678 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4580773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
G J Alexander , M A Peterson , X W Beardsley
The puzzling behavior of short sellers around earnings announcements
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 278 Posted: 2014
S Arif , E T De Goerge
The dark side of low financial reporting frequency: Investors' reliance on alternative sources of earnings news and excessive information spillovers
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 49 Posted: 2020
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
J W Bae , F Belo , J Li , X Lin , X Zhao
The opposing effects of complexity and information content on uncertainty dynamics: Evidence from 10-K filings. Management Science, Advance online publication Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
RANK
411,549
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies