Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Migration of Global Supply Chains: A Real Effect of Mandatory ESG Disclosure

66 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023

Hai Lu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Qilin Peng

University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School

Jee-Eun Shin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Luping Yu

Xiamen University

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

This study examines firms’ global supply chain strategies following the staggered introduction of mandatory ESG disclosure in different countries. We find that mandatory ESG disclosure is associated with migration of suppliers to countries with opaque ESG-related corporate information environments and that such migration results in improvement of firms’ perceived ESG profile. These findings suggest that mandated ESG disclosures motivate firms to appear de jure compliant with the mandates, but de facto ignorant about their real ESG-related responsibilities of their suppliers. Our findings also show that such effects are mitigated if the disclosure mandates include more targeted demands on supply chain due diligence processes. Further results indicate that supply chain composition changes in response to mandated ESG disclosure are less pronounced for firms located in countries with higher ESG-related social awareness, and firms subject to stronger external governance mechanisms such as monitoring of analysts and institutional investors. Our study informs policymakers and regulators on the global supply chain consequences stemming from the implementation of sustainability reporting guidelines.

Keywords: ESG, Disclosure, Supply Chain, Regulations

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Hai and Peng, Qilin and Shin, Jee-Eun and Yu, Luping, Migration of Global Supply Chains: A Real Effect of Mandatory ESG Disclosure (September 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4581611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4581611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
S Agca , V Babich , J R Birge , J Wu
Credit shock propagation along supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market
Manag. Sci , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
S M Bartram , K W Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
J. Financ. Econ , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,132
RANK
28,551
8 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies