Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Shifting Under the Arm’s Length Principle

32 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Alex Rathke

FEA-RP, University of São Paulo

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

This study analyses the tax-induced profit shifting behaviour of firms and the impact of governments' anti-shifting rules. We derive a model of a firm that combines internal sales and internal debt in a full profit shifting strategy, and which is required to apply the arm's length principle and a general thin capitalisation rule. We find several cases where the firm may shift profits to low-tax countries while satisfying the usual arm's length conditions in all countries. Internal sales and internal debt may be regarded either as complementary or as substitute shifting channels, depending on how the implicit concealment costs vary after changes in all transactions. We show that the cross-effect between the shifting channels facilitates profit shifting by means of accepted transfer prices and interest rates.

Keywords: profit shifting, transfer pricing, debt shifting, thin capitalisation, arm's length principle.

JEL Classification: C02; D01; K34.

Suggested Citation:

Rathke, Alex, Profit Shifting Under the Arm’s Length Principle (September 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4581549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4581549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why pay more? Corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9-10 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 660 - 688 Posted: 2020
J T Bernard , R J Weiner
Multinational corporations, transfer prices, and taxes: Evidence from the US petroleum industry
Taxation in the Global Economy , p. 123 - 154 Posted: 1990
J Blouin , H Huizinga , M L Laeven , G Nicodème
Thin capitalization rules and multinational rm capital structure Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
677
RANK
508,348
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies