Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does firm value matter for corporate disclosure? A study of Covid-19-related disclosure by Vietnamese listed firms.

Hoang, T.T.T, and Nguyen, H.C.. “Does firm value matter for corporate disclosure? A study of Covid-19-related disclosure by Vietnamese listed firms”. Journal of Science and Technology - The University of Danang, 21 (8.1), pp. 17-22, Available at https://jst-ud.vn/jst-ud/article/view/8632.

Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Nguyen Huu Cuong

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Thanh Thanh Hoang

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Date Written: September 23, 2023

Abstract

Existing research has explored the relationship between firm value and corporate disclosure, but little is known about this association during the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing economic crisis. This study investigates whether firm value influences corporate disclosure in the Vietnamese stock market in 2021, the second year of the pandemic. Using Tobin's Q as a measure of firm value and COVID-19-related disclosure as a proxy for corporate disclosure, a regression model is employed. Control variables capturing the firm's profile and internal corporate governance are included. The sample consists of the top 100 Vietnamese listed firms by market capitalization in 2021. The findings reveal a negative impact of firm value on corporate disclosure, indicating that a firm's market evaluation can influence its decision to disclose information during a pandemic-induced economic crisis.

Keywords: Corporate Disclosure, Covid-19 Related Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Firm Value, Vietnamese Listed Firms

JEL Classification: M41; G32

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Cuong Huu and Hoang, Thanh Thanh Thi, Does firm value matter for corporate disclosure? A study of Covid-19-related disclosure by Vietnamese listed firms. (September 23, 2023). Hoang, T.T.T, and Nguyen, H.C.. “Does firm value matter for corporate disclosure? A study of Covid-19-related disclosure by Vietnamese listed firms”. Journal of Science and Technology - The University of Danang, 21 (8.1), pp. 17-22, Available at https://jst-ud.vn/jst-ud/article/view/8632., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4581095
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
302
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies