Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Site Visits and Corporate Investment Efficiency

Management Science, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2023

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Guojin Gong

University of Connecticut

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Hanzhong Shi

Nanjing University

Angie Wang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 24, 2023

Abstract

Site visits allow visitors to physically inspect productive resources and interact with onsite employees and executives face-to-face. We posit that, by allowing visitors to acquire investment-related information and monitor the management team, site visits offer disciplinary benefits for corporate investments. Using mandatory disclosures of site visits in China, we find that corporate investments become more responsive to growth opportunities as the intensity of site visits increases, consistent with the notion that site visits yield disciplinary benefits. We also find that the positive association between site visits and investment efficiency is more pronounced when visitors can glean more investment-related information and when they have stronger incentives and greater power to monitor managers. This positive association is also stronger among firms with more severe agency problems and higher asset tangibility. The overall evidence supports the notion that site visits serve as a unique venue for institutional investors and financial analysts to acquire valuable information and serve a monitoring function, which generates disciplinary benefits for corporate investments.

Keywords: Site visits, corporate investment efficiency, monitoring, information acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Gong, Guojin and Kim, Yongtae and Shi, Hanzhong and Wang, Angie, Site Visits and Corporate Investment Efficiency (September 24, 2023). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4582137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4582137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
J. Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
D Appelbaum , S Budnik , M Vasarhelyi
Auditing and accounting during and after the COVID-19 crisis
CPA Journal , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2020
D Appelbaum , R A Nehmer
Using drones in internal and external audits: An exploratory framework
J. Emerging Tech. in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 113 Posted: 2017
P Asquith , M Mikhail , A Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
J. Financial Econom , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
994
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,581
RANK
53,111
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies