Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have financial statements become less informative? Evidence from a new accounting model to predict bankruptcy: A few ratios do not tell the whole story

47 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2023 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Marc De Bourmont

Neoma Business School

Pierre Six

Neoma Business School

Wenbin Cao

NEOMA Business School

Francois Larmande

Université de Sherbrooke

Jérôme Verny

Neoma Business School

Date Written: July 15, 2024

Abstract

Prior literature has raised concern that increased financial reporting discretion (FRD) over the last decades might have led to a significant decrease of the information content of financial statements for predicting bankruptcy over the last decades. We hypothesize that, while a few ratios prone to FRD have indeed lost their informational content, financial statement information (FSI) taken as whole has not experienced such a decline, since much of the discretion introduced by FRD can be mitigated through appropriate FSI selection. To test our hypothesis, we develop a new accounting model for bankruptcy prediction, whose predictors are purposefully chosen to alleviate the impact of FRD and make a better use of FSI. This model has a significantly higher predicting power than previous models based on FSI, highlighting the fact that previous models were far from extracting all the relevant information from financial statements. More importantly, it does not experience the decline in predictive power observed in past models over time. Overall, our paper shows that increased FRD over the last decades has not meaningfully impaired the ability of FSI to predict bankruptcies.

Keywords: Bankruptcy prediction, financial statements, market information, hazard model JEL Codes: G31, G32, G33, G34

JEL Classification: G31,G32,G33,G34

Suggested Citation:

De Bourmont, Marc and Six, Pierre and Cao, Wenbin and Larmande, Francois and Verny, Jérôme, Have financial statements become less informative? Evidence from a new accounting model to predict bankruptcy: A few ratios do not tell the whole story (July 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4582464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4582464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
V Agarwal , R J Taffler
Twenty-five years of the Taffler z-score model: does it really have predictive ability? Accounting and Business Research , volume 37 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 2007
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Altman , R Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA analysis. A new model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 1 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
E I Altman
A further empirical investigation of the bankruptcy cost question
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1067 - 1089 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
413,842
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies