Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Real Effects of Regulator-Led Minority Shareholder Activism: Evidence from Corporate Innovation

61 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Yunsen Chen

Central University of Finance and Economics

Rong Huang

Central University of Finance and Economics

Yao Yu

Central University of Finance and Economics

wei yuan

Sichuan University

Abstract

We investigate the unintended real effects of regulator-led minority shareholder activism on corporate innovation. We use manually collected data from the China Securities Investor Services Center (CSISC), a novel regulatory investor protection institution controlled by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) that holds 100 shares of every listed firm. We find that by exercising its shareholder rights, the CSISC curtails the innovation output of targeted firms. This effect is amplified in cases involving a high level of myopic pressure and few innovation incentives. We further observe variation of different intervention methods. Textual analysis reveals that CSISC intervention with a myopic topic and negative tone contributes to a decrease in innovation. Managerial myopia and financial constraints are the underlying channels. Furthermore, CSISC intervention also undermines innovation efficiency. In summary, our findings suggest that regulator-led minority shareholder activism exacerbates managerial myopia to cater to investors and financial constraints, ultimately stifling corporate innovation.

Keywords: Regulator-led minority shareholder, Shareholder activism, Innovation, Managerial myopia, China Securities Investor Services Center

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yunsen and Huang, Rong and Yu, Yao and yuan, wei, The Unintended Real Effects of Regulator-Led Minority Shareholder Activism: Evidence from Corporate Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4583066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4583066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
G Ahuja , R Katila
Technological acquisitions and the innovation performance of acquiring firms: A longitudinal study
Strategic Management Journal , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 197 - 220 Posted: 2001
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
481,162
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies