Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
High Quality or Low Quality? The Impact of CSR on Green Innovation from Perspectives of Willingness and Ability to Innovate

12 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023

Guangliang Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Boang Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Linyao Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Green innovation is increasingly becoming a key way to address environmental issues. Due to the negative impact of green patent bubbles on sustainable development, this paper emphasizes the significance of green innovation quality. Using data from China's A-share listed companies from 2008 to 2020, this paper investigates the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on green innovation quality. The findings suggest that CSR promotes high-quality green innovation while inhibiting low-quality green innovation. Willingness to innovate and ability to innovate are the mechanisms through which CSR influences high-quality green innovation.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), innovation quality, environmental R&D investment, financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Guangliang and Tang, Boang and Li, Linyao, High Quality or Low Quality? The Impact of CSR on Green Innovation from Perspectives of Willingness and Ability to Innovate. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4583009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4583009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
336
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies