Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Data Manipulation May Help in Getting the Best Risk Failure Predictions? Lesson for the Romanian Companies

14 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023

Isabella Lucut-Capras

Babes-Bolyai University

Monica Violeta Achim

Babes-Bolyai University, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Sorin Nicolae Borlea

Faculty of Economic Sciences, Computer Science and Engineering ; Faculty of Economics

Mihaela Stefan Hint

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lucian Vasile Gaban

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate how financial data manipulation is related with the failure risk of the companies. The sample consists of 63 non-financial Romanian companies listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange for the period 2015- 2020. We found evidence on existing a negative correlation between the failure risk and data manipulated risk, meaning that the firms that engage in manipulated activities do not face the risk of insolvency. Our study supports the idea that the inclusion of some indicators of accumulated accruals (such as TATA)  can improve the accuracy of the prediction of failure risk.

Keywords: data manipulation, Beneish score, failure risk, Altman score, performance, accruals

Suggested Citation:

Lucut-Capras, Isabella and Achim, Monica Violeta and Borlea, Sorin Nicolae and Stefan Hint, Mihaela and Gaban, Lucian Vasile, How Data Manipulation May Help in Getting the Best Risk Failure Predictions? Lesson for the Romanian Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4583011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4583011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
436
RANK
914,805
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies