Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Spillover Role of Corporate Spinoffs in Financing Activities: Evidence from Equity Sales by Private Firms Through Regulation D

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2023 Last revised: 16 Nov 2023

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Jangwon Suh

CUNY Queens College

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the increased quantity of public information has a spillover impact on equity sales by private industry peer firms. To capture an increase in the quantity of public peer information, we use corporate spinoffs as these events cause an increase in the number of independent public entities that mandatorily disclose financial reports. Using a unique dataset on private firms’ equity sales extracted from the SEC filings pursuant to Regulation D, we find that private industry peers sell more equity following spinoffs, but the increase is not statistically significant. When we divide our spinoff sample based on the availability of segment information on subsidiaries before spinoffs, however, we find a significant increase in private firms’ equity sales after spinoffs when parent firms did not previously disclose segment reports. Additional test results suggest that our inferences regarding private industry peers are not entirely explained by an industry-wide demand shock. Overall, we contribute to the literature by establishing an information spillover channel, incremental to the effect of common industry shocks, flowing from the public to private markets.

Keywords: Regulation D, private capital markets, equity capital offerings, information spillover

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sangwan and Suh, Jangwon, The Information Spillover Role of Corporate Spinoffs in Financing Activities: Evidence from Equity Sales by Private Firms Through Regulation D (May 1, 2023). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4584821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4584821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
S Ahn , D J Denis
Internal capital markets and investment policy: Evidence from corporate spinoffs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 71 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 516 Posted: 2004
K D Allee , B A Badertscher , T L Yohn
Private versus public corporate ownership: Implications for future changes in profitability
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2020
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
511,510
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies