Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Central Bank Digital Currency and Corporate Cash Holdings: Evidence from China’s e-CNY pilot

56 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2023 Last revised: 7 Dec 2023

Guanglong Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 26, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates how the introduction of a central bank digital currency (CBDC) affects corporate cash holdings by exploiting China’s e-CNY (electronic Chinese yuan) staggered pilot program as an exogenous shock. Our results, based on a difference-in-differences research design, suggest that firms in pilot areas significantly reduce their cash holdings after the introduction of e-CNY. The findings are consistent with the notion that using e-CNY lowers firms’ transaction costs, increases transparency, and enhances traceability, leading to the reduction of firms’ transaction, precautionary, and agency motives to hoard excess cash. Additional analysis shows that firms without financing privileges (private firms and those lacking political connections), firms facing higher expropriation costs, firms with illiquid stocks, and firms experiencing volatile stock returns derive greater benefits from the e-CNY launch. Finally, our dynamic model suggests that using e-CNY facilitates firms’ faster cash holding adjustments toward their target cash holding levels. This study pioneers the investigation of CBDC’s economic implications for the corporate sector, highlighting its role in lowering transaction costs, enhancing traceability, and improving financial inclusivity.

Keywords: Central bank digital currency; e-CNY; Corporate cash holdings

JEL Classification: E42; E58; G32

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Guanglong and Chan, Johnny, Central Bank Digital Currency and Corporate Cash Holdings: Evidence from China’s e-CNY pilot (September 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4584652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4584652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
F Allen , X Gu , J Jagtiani
Fintech, cryptocurrencies, and CBDC: Financial structural transformation in China
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 124 Posted: 2022
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
I Appel , J Farre-Mensa , E Simintzi
Patent trolls and startup employment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 3 , p. 708 - 725 Posted: 2019
R Auer , G Cornelli , J Frost
Rise of the central bank digital currencies: drivers, approaches and technologies Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Hari Prasad Josyula
Global Trends in Central Bank Digital Currencies
RIBAF-D-23-00796 · 26 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 247
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,161
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies