Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputational Spillovers between Board Directors

86 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2023 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Shasta Shakya

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper identifies a novel governance mechanism whereby board directors experience reputational spillovers for their association with poor monitors via board appointments. Because similar individuals associate with one another and learn from one another, associations with poor monitors affect the perceptions of a director’s monitoring quality. I find that directors serving on the same committee of a board experience spillovers. Exploiting negative shocks to outsider perceptions of the monitoring quality of directors serving on the audit committee of firms experiencing securities fraud litigations, I find that at non-shocked firms where they also serve on the audit committee, other audit directors experience spillovers, despite having no direct exposure to the shock: their likelihood of reappointment on the committee and becoming committee chair declines. They are also less likely to obtain new directorships in the labor market.



Keywords: Reputational Spillovers, Director Career, Governance, Director Networks

Suggested Citation:

Shakya, Shasta, Reputational Spillovers between Board Directors (July 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4585996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4585996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Renée B Adams , C Ali , ; Akyol , Patrick Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
Renée B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Renée B Adams , ; Vanitha Ragunathan , Robert Tumarkin
Death by committee? An analysis of corporate board (sub-) committees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , p. 1119 - 1146 Posted: 2021
Reena ; Aggarwal , Sandeep Dahiya , ; , Nagpurnanand R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
722
RANK
735,901
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies