Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Incentives and Tax-Motivated Income Shifting

48 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2023

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Scott G. Rane

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: February 2023

Abstract

We examine whether executives’ equity-based compensation incentives, tied to firm value (delta) and risk-taking (vega), influence the extent of firms’ tax-motivated income shifting. Prior literature suggests a broad association between compensation incentives and tax avoidance. However, it is unclear whether specific tax avoidance activities or manager preference in selecting the optimal mix of these activities drive this association. We find that delta is positively associated with income shifting, suggesting that executives behave as if income shifting is value enhancing, on average. We also find that this association is incrementally more positive among executives with greater ability. We fail to find an association between vega and income shifting, suggesting that risk-taking incentives are not clearly linked with income shifting. These findings suggest that different components of compensation incentivize managers to engage in certain types of tax avoidance activities and the value enhancing benefits of income shifting dominate potential increases in risk.

Keywords: Equity compensation, executive compensation, tax-motivated income shifting, tax avoidance, international taxation

JEL Classification: G34, H25, H26, J33, M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and McGuire, Sean T. and Rane, Scott G., Equity Incentives and Tax-Motivated Income Shifting (February 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4586680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4586680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
D Aboody , S Levi , D Weiss
Managerial incentives, options, and cost-structure choices
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 422 - 451 Posted: 2018
E Amir , J M Carabias , J Jona , G Livne
Fixed-effects in empirical accounting research Posted: 2016
D Anantharaman , Y Lee
Managerial risk taking incentives and corporate pension policy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 328 - 351 Posted: 2014
J D Anderson , J E Core
Managerial incentives to increase risk provided by debt, stock, and options
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 9 , p. 4408 - 4432 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
RANK
531,260
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies