Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Educational Level of the Board of Directors Affect the Company's Capital Structure?

31 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Hung Hsing

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Cheng-Chien Lee

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This research aims to investigate the impact of the educational backgrounds of board members on a company's capital structure. The study covers board members with various educational qualifications, including Ph.D., master's, bachelor's, and high school degrees. It also examines the effects under different time periods and government policy contexts. The research findings reveal that board members with different educational backgrounds have had varying degrees of influence on a company's capital structure over different time periods. Conversely, board members with undergraduate degrees may have become more inclined to use financial leverage to expand their businesses post-financial crisis, but government regulatory policies may have limited their leverage utilization. For board members with high school qualifications, their lack of specialized knowledge may have led to a greater reliance on advice from internal company professionals, potentially influencing the formulation of the capital structure.

Keywords: Board Member Education Level, Capital Structure, Board Member Qualifications, Government Regulation, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Hsing, Hung and Lee, Cheng-Chien, Does the Educational Level of the Board of Directors Affect the Company's Capital Structure?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4587289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4587289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Iii Barker , V L Mueller , G C
CEO characteristics and firm R&D spending
Management science , volume 48 , issue 6 , p. 782 - 801 Posted: 2002
M Bennouri , T Chtioui , H Nagati , M Nekhili
Female board directorship and firm performance: What really matters
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 88 , p. 267 - 291 Posted: 2018
E F Brigham , J F Houston
Fundamentals of financial management: Concise Posted: 2021
H N Dang , V T T Vu , X T Ngo , H T Hoang
Study the impact of growth, firm size, capital structure, and profitability on enterprise value: Evidence of enterprises in Vietnam
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 160 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
739
RANK
517,938
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies