Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure and ESG Profiles: Evidence from the Smaller Reporting Company Rule

83 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023 Last revised: 7 Dec 2024

Jewon Shin

Pennsylvania State University; Yonsei University

Date Written: December 07, 2024

Abstract

I examine the impact of reduced mandatory disclosure on ESG profiles. Using the SEC's 2018 rule reform for smaller reporting companies, I find that treated firms reduced their ESG disclosure quality and score when their disclosure obligations decreased, particularly in environmental and governance dimensions. This negative effect is intensified for financially constrained firms but is mitigated for firms with strong ESG commitments, such as gender-diverse boards, ESG-linked executive compensation, ESG-focused investors, and strong governance. However, I find no significant changes in real ESG activities among firms that disclose this information, such as emissions and donations. These results indicate that information availability is a fundamental driver of ESG scores and suggest that firms adjusting their ESG profiles are not prioritizing ESG, providing insights into how firms may react to the SEC's upcoming 2022 ESG disclosure obligations.

Keywords: Mandatory disclosure, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

JEL Classification: K20, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Shin, Jewon, Mandatory Disclosure and ESG Profiles: Evidence from the Smaller Reporting Company Rule (December 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4587249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4587249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
G Allayannis , A Mozumdar
The impact of negative cash flow and influential observations on investment-cash flow sensitivity estimates
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 901 - 930 Posted: 2004
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
P Baier , M Berninger , F Kiesel
Environmental, social and governance reporting in annual reports: A textual analysis , volume 29 , p. 93 - 118 Posted: 2020
L L Bargeron , K M Lehn , C J Zutter
Sarbanes-oxley and corporate risktaking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
RANK
215,250
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies