Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Shareholding of Private Firms and Greenwashing: Evidence from Decomposed CSR Reports

21 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Qi Wang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Zhong Ma

Beijing Jiaotong University

Guang Shu

Beijing Jiaotong University

Di Wu

Capital University of Economics and Business; Beijing Jiaotong University

Abstract

It remains unclear whether state shareholding truly enhances firms' fulfillment of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) or merely motivates them to strategically release "enhanced" CSR reports. By decomposing the information in a CSR report into details that are market related, industry related, and firm specific, we develop a new method to detect disparities in CSR disclosure and performance. We find that the above disparities are enhanced in private firms after the reform that encourages state-owned capital to invest in them, consistent with the notion of greenwashing. Additional tests show that greenwashing is more severe when CSR disclosure is compulsory.

Keywords: CSR disclosure, State shareholding, Greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Qi and Ma, Zhong and Shu, Guang and Wu, Di, State Shareholding of Private Firms and Greenwashing: Evidence from Decomposed CSR Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4587657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4587657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
T Beck , R Levine , A Levkov
Big bad banks? The winners and losers from bank deregulation in the United States
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 5 , p. 1637 - 1667 Posted: 2010
H B Christensen , L Hail , C Leuz
Mandatory CSR and sustainability reporting: economic analysis and literature review
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 1176 - 1248 Posted: 2021
K W Hanley , G Hoberg
The information content of IPO prospectuses
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2821 - 2864 Posted: 2010
A Khwaja , A Mian
Do lenders favor politically connected firms? Rent provision in an emerging financial market
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 1371 - 1411 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
791,953
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies