Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Tweets and Stock Price Discovery

62 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2023 Last revised: 27 Aug 2025

Jonathan Berkovitch

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Doron Israeli

IDC Herzliya - Arison School of Business; Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Venkat Subramanian

Graduate School of Business - Nazarbayev University

Date Written: August 27, 2025

Abstract

Do firms’ tweets improve stock price discovery at quarterly earnings announcements? We address this question using a comprehensive sample of tweets released by S&P 1500 firms at quarterly earnings announcements from 2008 through 2021. Firms’ tweets are associated with stronger stock price and volume reactions to earnings announcements. In addition, firms’ tweets reduce investor uncertainty, increase the timeliness and efficiency with which stock prices reflect information, and reduce the post-earnings announcement drift. We document that firms’ tweets improve stock price discovery by enhancing firm visibility and increasing retail investor trading, which facilitate faster incorporation of information into stock prices. Our inferences are robust to a host of control variables, including alternative measures of media coverage, and persist in both a propensity score matched sample and an entropy balanced sample, where firms that use Twitter are matched with similar firms that do not. Our findings are of interest to regulators who wish to improve the informativeness of security prices, investors who are interested in information that affects prices and volume, and managers who seek channels to communicate with investors. 

Keywords: JEL classification: G11, G12, G14, M41 Firms' tweets, Stock price discovery, Informational efficiency of stock prices

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Berkovitch, Jonathan and Israeli, Doron and Subramanian, Venkat, Firms' Tweets and Stock Price Discovery (August 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4587965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4587965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M Al Guindy
Corporate Twitter use and cost of equity capital
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 68 Posted: 2021
L S Bamber
Unexpected Earnings, Volume Around firm Size, Quarterly and Trading Earnings Announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 510 - 532 Posted: 1987
B M Barber , T Odean , N Zhu
Do retail trades move markets? Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 151 - 186 Posted: 2009
M E Barth , K H Gee , D Israeli , R Kasznik
Stock price management and share issuance: Evidence from equity warrants
Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 5 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
315,603
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies