Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responses to SEC comment letters on cybersecurity disclosures: An exploratory study

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, 46, 2022

Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Ju-Chun Yen

National Central University

Tawei (David) Wang

DePaul University

Kyunghee Yoon

Clark University - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: September 29, 2023

Abstract

Cybersecurity comment letters issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may ask companies to disclose additional or clarifying information about their cybersecurity incidents, risks, and corresponding controls, where appropriate. Although responding to the comment letter in the form of disclosing more information about cybersecurity can better signal a company’s security posture to investors and comply with regulations, it may also expose a company to higher levels of cybersecurity risks because of disclosing proprietary cybersecurity information. Using a sample consisting of 52 cybersecurity comment letters issued between 2011 and 2019 and their no-letter-matched companies, our findings suggest that comment letter companies change their disclosures regarding cybersecurity, as required by the SEC. However, as shown in the short-term cumulative abnormal returns around response letter days, the stock market reacts negatively to the responses. Our results provide policy implications by showing that market participants may not react positively to transparency.

Suggested Citation:

Yen, Ju-Chun and Wang, Tawei (David) and Yoon, Kyunghee, Responses to SEC comment letters on cybersecurity disclosures: An exploratory study (September 29, 2023). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, 46, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588238
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies