Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporations as Artificial Persons in the AI Age

23 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2023

Susan Watson

University of Auckland Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute ; University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 29, 2023

Abstract

With talk of driverless companies and bots substituting for human beings on company boards, the spectre of a future controlled by entities devoid of human morality is upon us. But has the future been here for longer than we all realise; has the corporation really changed?

The argument in this paper is that the shift to artificial legal persons being controlled by AI is not therefore as radical as it might appear to be. Business corporations have been separate from human beings since the 17th century where developments in the English East India Company meant boards were in effect charged to act in the interests of shareholders' capital rather than the shareholders themselves. That separation of capital is means perpetual corporations grow and prosper at least financially. But constrained decision making by human agents of corporations means corporations can never be truly altruistic: these amorphous selfish entities have been long amongst us.

Keywords: Corporate governance, corporate law, corporate theory, Artificial Intelligence, Innovation

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Watson, Susan Mary, Corporations as Artificial Persons in the AI Age (September 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Salomon , A Salomon , Co Ltd
AC , volume 22 Posted: 1897
See Generally , Herbert Hovenkamp , Enterprise , American Law
, p. 1836 - 1937 Posted: 1991
M William , Fletcher
Cyclopedia of the Law of Corporations , volume 1 Posted: 1917
L C B Gower
Principles of Modern Company Law Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,371
RANK
291,202
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies