Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Commitments and Innovation in China's Corporate Landscape: An Analysis of ESG Governance Strategies

34 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2023

Lemuel David

Xi’an Jiaotong University

Angel venessa

Westchester Community College

meiling luo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study delves into the nexus between corporate ESG commitments—with a spotlight on environmental considerations—and innovation trends in China's corporate sector, leveraging data from Bloomberg's extensive database encompassing over 5,102 companies. Our objective was to discern if and how environmental components within the ESG framework serve as precursors to a company's innovative inclinations. Adopting a quantitative methodology, we employed Bayesian Linear Regression and Neural Networks to unearth patterns. Key findings reveal that companies with pronounced environmental commitments within their ESG strategies are not only more innovative but also align more closely with global sustainability benchmarks. Moreover, the role of transparent governance processes in bolstering innovation was evident, highlighting the significance of corporate accountability. The research further underscores the synergy between strategic diversification and innovation, suggesting that an optimal balance in diversification strategies augments a firm's innovative prowess. By integrating traditional accounting insights with cutting-edge data analytics, our study offers a holistic perspective on the environmental and financial ramifications of ESG-driven innovations. This research holds profound implications for academia, industry stakeholders, and policymakers, emphasizing the strategic role of environmental commitments in shaping sustainable and innovative corporate trajectories.

Keywords: ESG Commitments, Environmental Management, Innovation Trends, Corporate Governance, Diversification, Bayesian Linear Regression, Sustainable Strategies.

Suggested Citation:

David, Lemuel and venessa, Angel and luo, meiling, Environmental Commitments and Innovation in China's Corporate Landscape: An Analysis of ESG Governance Strategies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M Beiran , C A Spencer-Salmon , K Rajan
A 'programming' framework for recurrent neural networks
Nature Machine Intelligence , volume 5 , issue 6 , p. 570 - 571 Posted: 2023
P Berrone , A Fosfuri , L Gelabert , L R Gomez-Mejia
Necessity as the mother of 'green' inventions: Institutional pressures and environmental innovations
Strategic Management Journal , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 891 - 909 Posted: 2013
A Brem , K.-I Voigt
Integration of market pull and technology push in the corporate front end and innovation management-Insights from the German software industry
Technovation , volume 29 , issue 5 , p. 351 - 367 Posted: 2009
L Chen , A Feldmann , O Tang
The relationship between disclosures of corporate social performance and financial performance: Evidences from GRI reports in manufacturing industry
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 170 , p. 445 - 456 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
RANK
505,214
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies