Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Capital for Airlines: The Effects of Internal Governance Practices and the Application of New Leasing Standards

29 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2023

Alicia Ramírez Orellana

Universidad de Alcala de Henares

Anne M. Garvey

Universidad de Alcala de Henares

Laura Parte

National Distance Education University (UNED)

Jose A. Gonzalo-Angulo

Universidad de Alcala de Henares

Abstract

The tourism literature has made a real effort to study the impact of internal governance practices and external factors on corporate performance and business risk. Nevertheless, knowledge in the airline industry is less advanced than in other industries. This study aims to fill the gap by extending our learning in a new direction. To be specific, we address the following research questions: 1) Do internal governance practices affect the cost of capital (CoC) for airlines? 2) Do the new leasing standards (IFRS 16 and ASC 842) affect the CoC? 3) Has external audit pricing mediated previous relationships? To this end we collect information on 50 airlines for the period 2017-2022. The main results show that both the adoption of new leasing standards (IFRS 16 & ASC 842) and the governance dimension are important instruments for managing risk. There is also a sizeable mediation effect on audit pricing involved in the strategy of having good governance mechanisms for reducing the CoC for airlines.

Keywords: Airline industry, ASC 842, Cost of capital (CoC), Corporate social responsibility (CSR), IFRS 16 standard, Risk

Suggested Citation:

Ramírez Orellana, Alicia and Garvey, Anne M. and Parte, Laura and Gonzalo-Angulo, Jose A., The Cost of Capital for Airlines: The Effects of Internal Governance Practices and the Application of New Leasing Standards. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Y Abdi , X Li , X Càmara-Turull
How financial performance influences investment in sustainable development initiatives in the airline industry: The moderation role of state-ownership
Sustainable Development Posted: 2022
E Alabood , M Abuaddous , H Bataineh
The impact of IFRS 16 on airline companies: An exploratory study in the Middle East
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 112 - 128 Posted: 2019
K Angel , C Menéndez-Plans , N Orgaz-Guerrero
Risk management: comparative analysis of systematic risk and effect of the financial crisis on US tourism industry: Panel data research
International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 1920 - 1938 Posted: 2018
C Athanasiadou , G Theriou
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Employee Outcomes in the Aviation Industry during the COVID-19 Pandemic Era. A Conceptual Framework
Management and Business Research Quarterly Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
576,053
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies