Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operating Efficiency of Resulting Companies: An Analysis of Mergers & Acquisitions

32 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2023

Shubham Kumar Verma

Gautam Buddha University

Satish Kumar

Gautam Buddha University

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

Using information from the financial years 2013-14 to 2021-22 of Indian firms that combined during the financial years 2016-17 and 2017-18, the research compares the operational efficiency of the emerging companies before and after the M&As. Using stochastic frontier analysis (SFA), we compared the productivity of the 454 organizations that emerged as a consequence. In this analysis, we take into account all relevant factors to pinpoint optimal performance. The findings show that both before and after mergers and acquisitions, the operating margin was negatively affected. Only a small number of them, however, have really turned out to be detrimental. However, the results demonstrate that the operating margin has increased both before and after the mergers and acquisitions that occurred during these fiscal years. We suggest that this is because of the synergies created when businesses combine their resources, which is good news for the economy. We found that important firm factors including operating margin, ROA, ROCE, and EBIT have a significant role in the long-term post-M&A operational performance of a company after a merger or acquisition.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, Operating Efficiency, Firm Performance, Stochastic Frontier Analysis, Technical efficiency

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Shubham Kumar and Kumar, Satish, Operating Efficiency of Resulting Companies: An Analysis of Mergers & Acquisitions (September 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Q Ai , H Tan
Uncovering neglected success factors in post-acquisition reverse capability transfer: Evidence from Chinese multinational corporations in Europe
Journal of World Business , volume 55 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
M N U Akpan , N C Aik , P F Wanke , W H Chau
Exploring the long-term trade-off between efficiency and value creation in horizontal M&As: Evidence from Nigeria
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 130 - 147 Posted: 2018
S Aureli
Performance of unlisted Italian companies acquired by multinationals from emerging markets: The case of Indian acquisitions
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 895 - 924 Posted: 2015
V Barros , P Verga Matos , J Miranda Sarmento , P Vieira
M&A activity as a driver for better ESG performance
Technological Forecasting and Social Change Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Deepika Gupta , Asheesh Pandey
Analyzing impact of corporate governance index on working capital management through fractal functions
Chaos, Solitons & Fractals , volume 183 , p. 114946 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
524,565
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies