Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Audit Quality, Auditor Selection, and Hostile Takeovers: Evidence From Half a Century

41 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2023

Kriengkrai Boonlert-U-Thai

Chulalongkorn University - Chulalongkorn Business School

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Suwongrat Papangkorn

Chulalongkorn University

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: September 29, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
Exploiting a unique measure of hostile takeover exposure principally based on the staggered adoption of state legislations, we investigate how external audit quality is influenced by the discipline of the takeover market. External auditors and the takeover market both function as important instruments of external corporate governance.

Design/Method
We execute a standard regression analysis and run a variety of robustness checks to minimize endogeneity, namely, propensity score matching, entropy balancing, an instrumental-variable analysis, GMM dynamic panel data analysis, and Lewbel’s (2012) heteroscedastic identification.

Findings
Our immense sample spans half a century, encompassing nearly 180,000 observations and 17 takeover-related state legislations, one of the largest samples in the literature in this area. Our results suggest that firms with more takeover exposure are significantly less likely to use Big N auditors. Therefore, a more active takeover market results in poorer external audit quality, corroborating the substitution hypothesis. The discipline of the takeover market substitutes for the necessity for a high-quality external auditor. Specifically, a rise in takeover susceptibility by one standard deviation lowers the probability of using a Big N auditor by 4.29%.

Originality
Our study is the first to examine the effect of the takeover over market on audit quality using a novel measure of hostile takeover susceptibility mainly based on the staggered implementation of state legislation. Because the enactment of state legislation is beyond the control of any firm individually, it is plausibly exogenous. Our results therefore probably reflect a causal influence rather than merely a correlation.

Keywords: external auditors, Big N auditors, Big Four, hostile takeovers, the market for corporate control, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Boonlert-U-Thai, Kriengkrai and Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Papangkorn, Suwongrat and Jiraporn, Pornsit, External Audit Quality, Auditor Selection, and Hostile Takeovers: Evidence From Half a Century (September 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
692,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies