Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Risk and External Finance: Evidence from Cross-Country Firm-Level Data

46 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2023

Olayinka Oyekola

University of Exeter

Meryem Duygun

Nottingham University Business School

Samuel Odewunmi

University of Exeter

Temitope Fagbemi

Robert Gordon University - Aberdeen Business School

Abstract

Drawing on the strands of literature on agency theory, institutions and financial development, this paper investigates whether, and how, political risk can explain access to external finance by 127,542 firms in 108 countries over the period 2006 to 2021. We do this by combining international firm-specific data with a globally representative political risk measure to explore variations in access to external finance for working capital and fixed investment by firms. Our results provide robust evidence of a strong positive impact of political risk on external finance. Specifically, we find that a one-standard-deviation increase in political risk leads to a 10.89% increase in access to external finance for working capital of sampled firms. We then examine which dimensions of political risk matter for external finance, finding that bureaucratic quality, corruption, government stability, socioeconomic conditions, investment profile, external conflict, and ethnic tensions are the relevant individual components. Further analyses show that the effects of political risk on external finance for working capital are amplified for firms that are either experiencing low growth, innovative, in the service sector, or small- and medium-sized enterprises. Our results survive a battery of robustness checks, including an alternative proxy for external finance (fixed investment), controlling for additional confounding factors and outliers. Given the central importance of firms as engines of growth, our paper makes an insightful contribution to the literature on the institutional determinants of access to entrepreneurial financing by firms.

Keywords: G20, G30, 016, O50, L26

Suggested Citation:

Oyekola, Olayinka and Duygun, Meryem and Odewunmi, Samuel and Fagbemi, Temitope, Political Risk and External Finance: Evidence from Cross-Country Firm-Level Data. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson
Unbundling institutions
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 5 , p. 949 - 995 Posted: 2005
M F Ahmad , S Aziz , R El-Khatib , O Kowalewski
Firm-level political risk and dividend payout
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 86 Posted: 2023
M D Amore , M Bennedsen
The value of local political connections in a lowcorruption environment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 402 Posted: 2013
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
RANK
672,649
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies