Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
News on Tax-related Litigation and Consumer Purchases

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2023-05

63 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023 Last revised: 6 Dec 2023

Xixi Zhang

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

Given the conflicting anecdotal and empirical evidence concerning consumer-related reputational costs of tax aggressiveness, I examine the association between negative news on tax-related litigation —potential tax-related corporate misconduct— and consumer purchases. Leveraging quarterly financial data and hand-collected news for consumer-oriented S&P 500 firms, I find that negative news on tax-related litigation is associated with reduced sales and decreased sales growth by the ordinary least squares model with firm and industry-quarter fixed effects. However, I observe no changes in consumer purchases in response to government announcements of corporate misconduct, suggesting the negative association is attributable to media attention and tax-related issues. Further, the negative association is stronger for small firms, previous tax-aggressive firms, firms with homogeneous products, firms with high domestic sales, first-time news, articles featuring tax headlines, and articles covering unfavorable court or government allegations, regardless of the final decision status. Consumers perceive domestic issues negatively but foreign issues positively. They are also sensitive to the negative tone of news articles. Overall, my findings are consistent with media coverage of potential tax-related corporate misconduct deterring consumer purchases. These findings inform policymakers that news media has a more powerful influence on consumers than government announcements of corporate misconduct.

Keywords: news, consumer purchases, tax-related litigation, corporate misconduct

JEL Classification: H20, H26, M41, G39

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Xixi, News on Tax-related Litigation and Consumer Purchases (December 1, 2023). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2023-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who Writes the News? Corporate Press Releases during Merger Negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
P Antonetti , M Anesa
Consumer Reactions to Corporate Tax Strategies: The Role of Political Ideology
Journal of Business Research , volume 74 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax Boycotts. The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,479
RANK
352,349
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies