Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech, Financial Constraints and Credit Risk of Smes: Empirical Evidence from China

19 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Jinxian Li

Hunan University

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of FinTech on the credit risk of listed Small and Medium Enterprises in China from 2013 to 2021. The findings indicate that FinTech development significantly reduces the credit risk of SMEs, partly by easing their financial constraints. Heterogeneity analysis reveals that the impact of FinTech on the credit risk of SMEs is more pronounced among smaller SMEs, non-SOEs, and those situated in underdeveloped regions. Stronger government supervision on FinTech may significantly diminish its effectiveness in reducing SMEs’ credit risk. Additionally, FinTech substantially mitigates the adverse effects of COVID-19 on the credit risk of SMEs.

Keywords: Fintech, SMEs, financial constraints, Credit Risk

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinxian, Fintech, Financial Constraints and Credit Risk of Smes: Empirical Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Acheampong , T Elshandidy
Does soft information determine credit risk? Text-based evidence from European banks
J. Int. Financial Mark. Inst. Money , volume 75 Posted: 2021
A Alfons , N Y Ateş , P J F Groenen
A Robust Bootstrap Test for Mediation Analysis
Organ. Res. Methods , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 591 - 617 Posted: 2022
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
J. Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E I Altman , M Iwanicz -Drozdowska , E K Laitinen , A Suvas
Financial distress prediction in an international context: A review and empirical analysis of Altman's Z-score model
J. Int. Financ. Manag. Account , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 131 - 171 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
769
RANK
538,134
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies