Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Company's Default Risk Influence its Willingness to Participate in International ESG Activities?

16 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023

Chih-Hsing Hung

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Chien-Ho Lin

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Yen-Hung Chen

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of default risk on the willingness of publicly listed companies in Taiwan to engage in ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) practices. The results demonstrate variations in the influence of default risk on ESG participation among different industries, indicating that default risk does indeed affect corporate willingness to participate in ESG activities in certain sectors. Interestingly, we also observe distinctions between the information technology industry and other sectors. The findings of this research provide significant substantive contributions to the corporate sector, investors, and policy makers.

Keywords: Environmental, Social, governance, ESG, Default Risk, Z score

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Chih-Hsing and Lin, Chien-Ho and Chen, Yen-Hung, Does the Company's Default Risk Influence its Willingness to Participate in International ESG Activities?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
E I Altman
The Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy: A Discriminant Analysis
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E I Altman
Predicting Financial Distress of Companies Using Z-Score & Zeta Models Posted: 2000
Daehyun Kim , Michael J Marin , Gordon D Richardson , Steven E Salterio , Albert Tsang
Modeling board governance, environmental expertise, and social engagement effects on firm environmental performance: Panel data evidence
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
Allen Goss , Gordon S Roberts
The impact of corporate social responsibility on the cost of bank loans
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 1794 - 1810 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
765,896
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies