Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lessons from Pre-Packaged Insolvency Cases in India: A Long Road Ahead

IBBI Annual Publication 2023: IBC - Evolution, Learnings and Innovation, ISBN: 978-81-947537-5-9, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India

30 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

M. P. Ram Mohan

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Sriram Prasad

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

Introduced in April 2021, pre-packaged insolvency was heralded as the next frontier of insolvency reforms in India. However, in the 2 year period since, we have only seen one resolved case, and a total of 8 filings. Significant delays compared to the statutorily targeted timelines plague the pending cases. The low adoption of the pre-pack resolution process in general, and particularly in response to the impact of the pandemic, belies the aim of efficient organisational turnaround. This paper uses case analysis and interviews with experts to understand the bottlenecks and the slow disposal of the cases.

Keywords: Pre-packaged Insolvency, IBC, NCLT, Pre-Packs

Suggested Citation:

M. P., Ram Mohan and Prasad, Sriram, Lessons from Pre-Packaged Insolvency Cases in India: A Long Road Ahead (October 1, 2023). IBBI Annual Publication 2023: IBC - Evolution, Learnings and Innovation, ISBN: 978-81-947537-5-9, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4590500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Bankruptcy Insolvency
Posted: 2021
re Amrit India Limited, CP (IBPP)
CP(IB)/116(AHM)2021
re GCCL Infrastructure and Projects Limited
In re Sudal Industries Limited, CP (IBPP)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
196,969
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies