Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Becoming Partner While Black: The Black Accountant’s Experience in the Climb to Partnership.

Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Jennifer R. Joe

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems; University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Eldar Maksymov

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Kerri-Ann Sanderson

Bentley University

Date Written: October 2, 2023

Abstract

Despite concerted efforts to boost Black representation in public accounting, Black accountants remain underrepresented at the partnership level in the U.S. Utilizing field theory, we examine unique challenges faced by Black accountants on the path to partnership via interviews with 25 Black partners, accounting executives with public accounting experience, and aspirants to partnership. We find that Black professionals face unique challenges from their firms and clients that inhibit their journey to partnership: scarcity of suitable mentors and of honest feedback, limitations in access to key opportunities, excessive performance standards and error intolerance, disconnectedness and interpersonal discomfort (especially for women), and misalignment of individuality with firm norms. Overall, we show that their unique cultural capital is the key factor underlying these inhibitors. Our results illuminate Black professionals’ struggle to accumulate necessary capital, explaining their underrepresentation at the partnership level and outlining remedies suggested by our findings.

Keywords: Black accountants, workplace diversity, inclusion, partnership, cultural capital, field theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M51, J15

Suggested Citation:

Joe, Jennifer R. and Maksymov, Eldar M. and Sanderson, Kerri-Ann, Becoming Partner While Black: The Black Accountant’s Experience in the Climb to Partnership. (October 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4590367
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
479
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies