Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Member Busyness and Risk Factor Disclosure

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2023

Cristina Bailey

University of New Mexico - Department of Accounting

Joshua Filzen

Boise State University

Date Written: July 15, 2024

Abstract

Audit committees in the U.S. oversee risk management within organizations, including oversight of the disclosure of risk factors in periodic filings. Because audit committees have become increasingly over-burdened, we examine the impact of the busyness of audit committee members, measured via members’ service on other boards, on risk factor disclosures. We find firms with busy members issue disclosures that are of lower quality (i.e., less readable and less focused on firm fundamentals). Further, we find that firms with busy members are more likely to issue timely updates to disclosures. However, these updates are more likely to be vague—implying they are inconsequential to the market. We find these results are primarily driven by service in other non-audit committee roles. In additional cross-sectional tests, we find that our results are strongest when there is more uncertainty or complexity in the business environment. Finally, additional specifications and tests show that our results are robust to concerns related to endogeneity. Overall, we find that the busyness of audit committee members has important implications for risk factor disclosures. 

Keywords: audit committee, corporate governance, busy, busyness, overboarded, risk factor disclosure

JEL Classification: D80, G32, G34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Cristina and Filzen, Joshua, Audit Committee Member Busyness and Risk Factor Disclosure (July 15, 2024). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4590360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4590360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y S Kim
Multiple directorships and acquirer returns
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
A H Alsheikh , W H Alsheikh
Does Audit Committee Busyness Impact Audit Report Lag? International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
459,150
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies