Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biased Judges? Judge Characteristics and Bankruptcy Outcomes

Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Donghyun Kang

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Department of Business Economics

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

Exploiting random assignment of judges to corporate bankruptcy filings, I examine the effect of judge characteristics on outcomes. First, I find that cases assigned to judges who grew up during the Great Depression are more likely to emerge from bankruptcy, whereas those assigned to judges with economics training and conservative political ideology are less likely to. Second, I show that the case duration is shorter (longer) when the potential case outcome is consistent (inconsistent) with judges' preferences. Third, the judge characteristics do not correlate with post-emergence outcomes. Overall, the findings suggest that the effect of judge characteristics may be concentrated in marginal cases where the economic benefits of liquidation versus emergence are not significantly different.

Keywords: Corporate bankruptcy, bankruptcy judge, judicial bias, personal experience

JEL Classification: G33, G34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Donghyun, Biased Judges? Judge Characteristics and Bankruptcy Outcomes (July 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4590284
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies