Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lender Learning from the Equity Market: Evidence from M&A Announcements

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4591443

56 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023 Last revised: 31 Mar 2025

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Matthew Phillips

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Regina Wittenberg Moerman

Northwestern University

Date Written: October 3, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether private lenders learn from the equity market by examining the pricing of loans issued following mergers and acquisitions (M&As). We document a V-shaped relation between M&A announcement returns and loan interest spreads, indicating that borrowing costs are increasing with both negative and positive announcement returns. We further show that absolute M&A announcement returns are associated with the increase in managerial risk taking and idiosyncratic risk following the M&As, suggesting that lenders learn regarding managers’ incentives to engage in risky actions in response to market feedback. Consistent with this interpretation, the relationship between absolute M&A announcement returns and loan spreads is stronger when managers have greater incentives to undertake risky actions, and weaker in the presence of covenants that restrict these actions. Overall, our findings shed light on how lenders incorporate information from stock prices into their credit risk assessments. 

Suggested Citation:

De George, Emmanuel T. and Donovan, John and Phillips, Matthew and Wittenberg Moerman, Regina, Lender Learning from the Equity Market: Evidence from M&A Announcements (October 3, 2023). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4591443, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4591443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4591443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
J M Addoum , J R Murfin
Equity price discovery with informed private debt
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 8 , p. 3766 - 3803 Posted: 2020
P Aghion , J C Stein
Growth versus margins: Destabilizing consequences of giving the stock market what it wants
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1025 - 1058 Posted: 2008
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
197,604
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies