Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Diversity and Bank Performance

32 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2023

Akhtar R. Siddique

Government of the United States of America - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)

Valerio Potì

University College Dublin

Alona Bilokha

Fordham University

Date Written: September 15, 2023

Abstract

We analyse the impact of increasing board diversity on bank performance, including the impact on bank borrowers. We analyse diversity in both gender and expertise. We find mixed impact from increasing gender diversity on financial performance. However, ESG scores increase when boards become more diverse. This may be endogenous since a firm's reputation may increase simply because its board has become more diverse. To the extent possible, we use econometric methods that accommodates endogeneity. We then analyse what happens to the new borrowers of the bank when its board becomes more diverse in both gender and expertise. We find that adding female board members with non-financial expertise leads to the banks lending to borrowers with greater growth opportunities. In contrast, when gender diversity increases for those banks without a concomitant increase in non-financial expertise, the bank does not increase its lending to firms with greater growth opportunities. We also use doubly robust learners in a machine learning framework that permits heterogeneous treatment effects. Our findings on bank ESG scores and the bank lending to borrowers with higher growth opportunities remain significant with the heterogeneous treatment methods.

Keywords: Board diversity, ESG ratings, Reputation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, Bank Performance, Causality, Machine Learning

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G33, C81

Suggested Citation:

Siddique, Akhtar R. and Potì, Valerio and Bilokha, Alona, Board Diversity and Bank Performance (September 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4592781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4592781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
RANK
446,506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies