Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Accounting Information Systems (AIS) on Internal Auditors: A Comparative Study between Bangladesh and Turkey

Impact of Accounting Information Systems (AIS) On Internal Auditors: A Comparative Study between Bangladesh and Turkey. (2023). International Journal of Scientific Research and Management (IJSRM), 11(10), 5182-5200. https://doi.org/10.18535/ijsrm/v11i10.em01

Posted: 2 Nov 2023

Maruful Islam

International Islamic University Chittagong

Date Written: October 4, 2023

Abstract

Technological improvements have led to a widespread use of accounting information systems (AIS) in companies and industries across the globe. Moreover, AIS offers thorough and trustworthy information to both internal and external users by typically focusing on six main areas: people, procedures, data, soft- ware, IT infrastructure, and internal controls. The aim of this study is to determine how AIS have affected internal auditors in Bangladesh and how those effects compare to or diverge from those found in a related and unique study carried out in Turkey. Both primary and secondary sources were used to gather the data. Using close-ended self-administered questionnaires I analyzed the impact of accounting information sys- tems on internal auditors in Bangladesh and using cross-country analysis measured these results against a similar study conducted in Turkey. In this work, SPSS is employed for validation. I posed 12 questions in the questionnaire, and 60 internal auditors from multiple sectors and various regions of Bangladesh re- sponded. The results strongly indicate that internal auditors in Bangladesh believe that AIS contributes positively to their work, and the conclusions are remarkably similar to those of the prior study conducted in Turkey. This study definitively answers the question regarding the positive impact of AIS on internal auditors in Bangladesh and having similarities with Turkey. This study is relevant to a wide range of pro- fessions, not only internal auditors, because it emphasizes the relevance of information technology in the corporate world.

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Maruful, Impact of Accounting Information Systems (AIS) on Internal Auditors: A Comparative Study between Bangladesh and Turkey (October 4, 2023). Impact of Accounting Information Systems (AIS) On Internal Auditors: A Comparative Study between Bangladesh and Turkey. (2023). International Journal of Scientific Research and Management (IJSRM), 11(10), 5182-5200. https://doi.org/10.18535/ijsrm/v11i10.em01 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4592725
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies