Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Divestment and Engagement: The Effect of Green Investors on Corporate Carbon Emissions

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 993/2024

57 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2023 Last revised: 10 Nov 2024

Matthew E. Kahn

University of Southern California; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

John G. Matsusaka

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; USC Gould School of Law

Chong Shu

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 9, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates whether green investors can influence corporate greenhouse gas emissions through capital markets, and if so, whether the effect is larger from divesting polluters’ stock in order to limit their access to capital, or acquiring polluters’ stock and engaging with management as owners. We focus on public pension funds, classifying them as green or nongreen based on which political party controlled the fund. To isolate the causal effects of green ownership, we use exogenous variation caused by state-level politics that shifted control of the funds, and portfolio rebalancing in response to returns from non-equity investment. Our main finding is that companies reduced their greenhouse gas emissions when stock ownership by green funds increased and did not alter or increased their emissions when ownership by nongreen funds increased. Other evidence based on proxy voting, shareholder proposals, and activist pension funds suggests that ownership mattered because of active engagement by green investors, and through attempts to persuade more than voting pressure. We do not find that companies with green investors were more likely to sell off their high-emission facilities (greenwashing). Overall, our findings suggest that (a) corporate managers respond to the environmental preferences of their investors; (b) divestment of polluting companies may lead to greater emissions; and (c) private markets may be able to partially address environmental challenges independent of government regulation.

Keywords: Carbon emissions, greenhouse gases, divestment, investors, shareholders, pension funds

JEL Classification: Q5, G3

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Matthew E. and Matsusaka, John G. and Shu, Chong, Divestment and Engagement: The Effect of Green Investors on Corporate Carbon Emissions (January 9, 2025). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 993/2024 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4592023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4592023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Reena Aggarwal , Sandeep Dahiya , Umit Yilmaz
Why Do Investors Vote Against Corporate Directors? Posted: 2023
Pat Akey , Ian Appel
Environmental Externalities of Activism Posted: 2019
Quamrul Ashraf , Oded Galor
The `Out of Africa' Hypothesis, Human Genetic Diversity, and Comparative Economic Development
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2013-02
Aleksander Andonov , Joshua D Rauh
The Shifting Finance of Electricity Generation Posted: 2023-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,801
RANK
54,602
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies