Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Political Activism and Information Transfers

George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. 334

56 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

Hengda Jin

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Suhas A. Sridharan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Laura A. Wellman

University of Oregon

Date Written: September 2023

Abstract

Prior research suggests that: (1) politically active firms have an information advantage over firms that do not engage in the political process, but also that (2) politically active firms are more likely to disclose policy-related information. We examine whether there are externalities associated with the processing of political information by politically active firms. We study this question in the setting of intra-industry information transfers around earnings announcements. Measuring firms’ political activism using campaign contributions, we find stronger intra-industry information transfers from politically active firms to their industry peers. These information transfers are stronger when there is more discussion during conference calls of political topics that have industry or market-wide implications. Similarly, these information transfers are also stronger when there is greater political uncertainty. Our paper highlights an important information externality related to politically active firms’ disclosures and improves our understanding of how politically active firms affect their industries’ information environment.

Keywords: Political connections; political information; information transfer; earnings announcements

JEL Classification: D72; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Dane M. and Jin, Hengda and Lee, Joshua A. and Sridharan, Suhas A. and Wellman, Laura A., Corporate Political Activism and Information Transfers (September 2023). George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy & the State Working Paper No. 334, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4593356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C Anilowski , M Feng , D Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 12 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Austen-Smith , D
Campaign contributions and access
American Political Science Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 566 - 581 Posted: 1995
S M Bainbridge
Insider trading inside the beltway
Journal of Corporation Law , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 281 - 307 Posted: 2011
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,207
RANK
254,445
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies