Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Good ESG Performance Help Beat Peers?

13 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Yanran Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Riwang Zhou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chao Zhang

Beijing Normal University (BNU)

Abstract

This paper investigates whether firms with good ESG performance can achieve above-peer median-level financial performance in the future and discusses the impact of ESG investors. The results show that firms with good ESG performance in the current period increase the probability of obtaining financial performance above the peer median level in the next period. The mechanism analysis suggests that firms with good ESG performance are more likely to outperform their peers when in a context of higher ESG development. Moreover, this is also true for firms that are more influenced by ESG investors.

Keywords: ESG investors, Corporate ESG performance, corporate financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Yanran and Zhou, Riwang and Zhang, Chao, Does Good ESG Performance Help Beat Peers?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4593099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Caroline Flammer
Does Corporate Social Responsibility Lead to Superior Financial Performance? A Regression Discontinuity Approach
Management Science , volume 61 , issue 11 , p. 2549 - 2568 Posted: 2015
Yogesh Chauhan , B Surya , Kumar
Do Investors Value the Nonfinancial Disclosure in Emerging Markets? Emerging markets review , volume 37 , p. 32 - 46 Posted: 2018
Beiting Cheng , Ioannis Ioannou , George Serafeim
Corporate Social Responsibility and Access to Finance: CSR and Access to Finance
Strategic management journal , volume 35 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2014
Yang Chuan , Sheridan Hwang , Ying Titman , Wang
Investor Tastes, Corporate Behavior, and Stock Returns: An Analysis of Corporate Social Responsibility
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 10 , p. 7131 - 7152 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
584,078
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies