Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Greater Transparency Discipline the Loan Loss Provisioning of Privately Held Banks?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 134

77 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023 Last revised: 11 Dec 2023

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Daniel Foos

Deutsche Bundesbank

Jan Riepe

Universität Paderborn

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 5, 2023

Abstract

Whether transparency helps or hurts the stability of the financial system is an unresolved question. Recent trends have seen a decline in disclosure requirements especially for small and privately held banks. We investigate the relationship between the transparency of loan loss provision disclosures and the provisioning practices of privately held banks. We study a unique change in disclosure regulation under German banking law which introduces mandatory disclosures of loan loss provisions. Using proprietary data provided by the national supervisor, we are able to observe provisioning practices before and after disclosure becomes mandatory. Our findings suggest that bank managers use loan loss provisions to a lesser extent for income smoothing once they are required to disclose their accounting choice. At the same time, provisions become timelier and loan portfolio quality improves. The change comes in the absence of capital market pressure and highlights the role of depositors and public pressure in the monitoring and disciplining of bank managers. Overall, these findings support the view that bank transparency helps establish financial stability.

Keywords: Bank Transparency, Earnings Smoothing, Loan Loss Provisions, Market Discipline, Privately Held Banks, Public Disclosure

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Foos, Daniel and Riepe, Jan, Does Greater Transparency Discipline the Loan Loss Provisioning of Privately Held Banks? (October 5, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 134, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4593329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
V V Acharya , N Mora
A Crisis of Banks as Liquidity Providers
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
K D Allee , B A Badertscher , T L Yohn
Private versus Public Corporate Ownership: Implications for Future Changes in Profitability
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2020
E A Arnold , I Größl , P Koziol
Market Discipline across Bank Governance Models: Empirical Evidence from German Depositors
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 61 , p. 126 - 138 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
215,250
3 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies