Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison between Sustainability Frameworks: an Integrated Reading through ESG Criteria for Business Strategies and Enterprise Risk Management

FEEM Working Paper No. 18

74 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2023

Paola Casciotti

Italian National Institute of Statistics

Date Written: October 6, 2023

Abstract

Implementing the complex Agenda 2030, with its high global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) requires, in the by now short time horizon of reference, an extraordinary effort, at all institutionals and private levels, to converge effectively on the whole system of intermediate and interrelated targets. At the same time, it is highly strategic to ensure macro and microeconomic financial long term balances among public and private sectors. The role of Sustainable Finance, in this context, is absolutely central. On the legislative side, the evolution of international directives, from Non Financial Reporting to Sustainability Reporting, impose to pay attention to new criteria and contents, also in order to distinguish deviant greenwashing phenomena. The paper compares the main frameworks, concerning the multiple and complex dimensions of Sustainability, like the institutional ones (MDG, SDG, BES) and one of the most widespread standard of non financial reporting framework (GRI) adopted by companies. The study aims to identify suitable criteria to allow the development of a simplified integrated analysis model of all targets and indicators established and currently in use, in order to converge effectively on the SDGs, to implement coherent public and enterprise’s policies and to produce realistic sustainability reports. The identified suitable criteria are the so called “ESG” criteria, increasingly recommended in the context of Sustainable Finance and by Supervisory bodies, as drivers in sustainability analyses, portfolio selection and rating determination. The paper, therefore, shows the results achieved by comparing these frameworks according to the proposed classification based on the individual E-S-G criteria and on their possible combinations (ES-EG-SG-ESG), through multidimensional matrixes of each goal, dimension, target and indicator (n.° 855) of the examined frameworks. The analysis quantifies the importance of environmental, social and governance drivers and the importance of their combination for each framework considered and also through them altogether. As mentioned in this paper, further analysis by the author leads to develop, according to this ESG simplified classification approach, a new enterprise internal framework, to integrate both sustainability and financial drivers, into Corporates strategic investment decision models and internal capital allocation (tangible and intangible) policies. In this way, the integration of sustainability criteria in all enterprises’ decision-making and risk management and control processes, becomes more effective and coherent with the Sustainable Development Goals. Consequently, the complex frameworks analysed, may become more easily comparable and integrated at an application enterprise level.

Keywords: ESG, SDGs, MDGs, GRI, Experimental Classification, Sustainable Finance, Integration, Enterprises, Corporate Risk Strategy, Sustainability Reporting, Sustainable Development

JEL Classification: F53, G390, L21, M14, O16, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Casciotti, Paola, A Comparison between Sustainability Frameworks: an Integrated Reading through ESG Criteria for Business Strategies and Enterprise Risk Management (October 6, 2023). FEEM Working Paper No. 18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4594401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4594401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Abi
Posted: 2014
Banca D'italia
Rapporto sugli investimenti sostenibili e sui rischi climatici della Banca d'Italia Posted: 2021-05
Banca D'italia
Carta degli Investimenti sostenibili della Banca d'Italia Posted: 2021
Banca D'italia
Rapporto sugli investimenti sostenibili e sui rischi climatici Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Zuzanna Zaporowska , Marek Szczepański
The Application of Environmental, Social and Governance Standards in Operational Risk Management in SSC in Poland
Sustainability , volume 16 , issue 6 , p. 2413 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
162,978
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

FEEM Working Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies