Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Transparency and Regulators’ Effort: Evidence from Public Release of the SEC's Review Work

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4595260

63 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2023

Rui Guo

Xiamen University

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: October 8, 2020

Abstract

Using the public release of comment letters on EDGAR to capture a regime shift towards regulatory transparency, we examine whether an increase in transparency affects regulators’ effort and work performance. We find that the SEC staff reviews more filings and more documents per filing following the disclosure regime shift. These effects are incrementally stronger for firms with comment letters that are expected to attract greater investor or public monitoring. Furthermore, under the new regime, reviews are more timely. Upon the regime switch, the likelihood of a restatement (receiving a comment letter) decreases (increases) for filings that are reviewed. After receiving a comment letter, a firm with signs of potential fraud is more likely to be investigated, and this effect becomes more pronounced under the new regime. Altogether, our findings suggest that publicly disclosing regulators’ work output can mitigate moral hazard (i.e., increase regulators’ work input), improving their work performance.

Keywords: Regulatory Transparency, Work Effort, SEC Filing Review

JEL Classification: G00, G18, G38, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Rui and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee), Regulatory Transparency and Regulators’ Effort: Evidence from Public Release of the SEC's Review Work (October 8, 2020). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4595260, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4595260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4595260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection Process -Preliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
V P Baloria , J Heese
The Effects of Media Slant on Firm Behavior
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 184 - 202 Posted: 2018
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
889
RANK
403,165
3 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies