Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Shareholding in Private Listed Firms and Their ESG Performance: Evidence from China

23 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2023

Qi Wang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Zhong Ma

Beijing Jiaotong University

Xinyue Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Di Wu

Capital University of Economics and Business; Beijing Jiaotong University

Abstract

Using a sample of Chinese firms covering 2009 to 2020, we examine the impact of state shareholdings (SS) on private firms' environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. Our findings suggest that SS improves corporate ESG performance. Mechanism tests show that SS mitigates agency problems and promotes ESG investments, leading to better ESG performance. Additional tests indicate that the positive impact is more salient among private firms with less aggressive business strategies, as well as those operating in competitive and lightly polluting industries.

Keywords: State shareholding, ESG performance, private enterprises, sustainable development

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Qi and Ma, Zhong and Wang, Xinyue and Wu, Di, State Shareholding in Private Listed Firms and Their ESG Performance: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4596121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4596121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
T Barko , M Cremers , L Renneboog
Shareholder engagement on environmental, social, and governance performance
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 180 , issue 2 , p. 777 - 812 Posted: 2022
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
K A Bentley , T C Omer , N Y Sharp
Business strategy, financial reporting irregularities, and audit effort. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 780 - 817 Posted: 2013
D C Broadstock , K Chan , L T W Cheng , X Wang
The role of ESG performance during times of financial crisis: Evidence from Covid-19 in China
Finance Research Letters , volume 38 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
812,529
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies