Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Patent Portfolios and Valuation Uncertainty

39 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023

Thaddeus Neururer

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Li Wang

The University of Akron

Yuxiang Zheng

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers University, Camden

Date Written: October 6, 2023

Abstract

This study explores how the stock market perceives the risk associated with a company's patent portfolio. Utilizing a U.S. patent sample, we examine the impact of three key patent portfolio characteristics—total value, total number, and value dispersion—on market-perceived valuation uncertainty as proxied by option-implied volatilities. Our results indicate that a greater total market value of a patent portfolio increases market-perceived uncertainty, whereas a larger number of patents and lower value dispersion decrease it. Also, as options trading is related to investors’ demand for risk management and investor disagreements, we find that option market activity decreases with the number of patents but increases with the patent portfolio value and dispersion of patent values in a portfolio, and market demand for put options (downside risk protections) increases with patent portfolio value and decreases with the number of patents in a portfolio. In total, our results suggest that the structure of a firm’s patent portfolio is associated with market-perceived uncertainty along with the volume and direction of market hedging activities. We extend prior work by showing that not just the quantity, but also the structure of a firm’s patent portfolio influences market risk valuation and management. Our findings have implications for academic researchers, investment professionals, and regulators.

Keywords: Patents, Uncertainty, Options, Open Interest, Cost of Capital

JEL Classification: F3, G1, G3

Suggested Citation:

Neururer, Thaddeus and Wang, Li and Zheng, Yuxiang, Patent Portfolios and Valuation Uncertainty (October 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4596801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4596801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Allison , M Lemley , K Moore , R Derek
Valuable patents
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 92 , issue 3 , p. 435 - 380 Posted: 2004
J Bena , L Garlappi
Corporate innovation and returns
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 340 - 383 Posted: 2020
N Bloom , M Schankerman , J Van Reenen
Identifying technology spillovers and product market rivalry
Econometrica , volume 81 , issue 4 , p. 1347 - 1393 Posted: 2013
J Callen , M Lyle
The term structure of implied costs of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 25 , p. 342 - 404 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
242,713
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies