Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dataset for Analysing the ESG-Oriented Technical Efficiency of Vnsi Listed Companies

12 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023

Manh Trung Phung

Vietnam Maritime University

Van-Thi Dao

Vietnam Maritime University

Khac-Thanh Mai

Vietnam Maritime University

Abstract

In tandem with the evolution of the "green economy and finance" paradigm, a number of sustainability assessment metrics tailored to businesses has been meticulously researched and refined. Among the established benchmarks, the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) index has emerged prominently. With the strategic guidance of governments across diverse nations, this index has progressively assumed a central role as a guiding compass for enterprises with aspirations of sustainable development and the pursuit of long-term investment strategies coveted by discerning investors. The fundamental objective underpinning the dataset presented in this paper is to appraise the technical efficiency exhibited by listed companies on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange (HOSE), encompassed within the purview of the Vietnam Sustainability Index (VNSI). The assessment of information disclosure practices by these corporate entities adheres rigorously to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards of 2020. Complementing this are assorted financial metrics gleaned from financial and annual reports, underpinning an analytical framework predicated on Network Data Envelopment Analysis (NDEA), affording a ranking of corporate efficiency. This empirical dataset not only facilitates enhanced comprehension for investors and financial market overseers regarding the pivotal significance of ESG disclosures and practices but also serves as a catalyst for researchers, encouraging the exploration of broader research avenues or the development of novel, more efficacious evaluation frameworks.

Keywords: Sustainability reports, Technical efficiency, ESG, Network Data Envelopment Analysis.

Suggested Citation:

Phung, Manh Trung and Dao, Van-Thi and Mai, Khac-Thanh, Dataset for Analysing the ESG-Oriented Technical Efficiency of Vnsi Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4596819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4596819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R M A Zahid , M K Khan , W Anwar , U S Maqsood
The role of audit quality in the ESGcorporate financial performance nexus: Empirical evidence from Western European companies
Borsa Istanbul Review , volume 22 Posted: 2022-12
A A Egorova , S V Grishunin , A M Karminsky
The Impact of ESG factors on the performance of Information Technology Companies
Procedia Comput Sci , volume 199 , p. 339 - 345 Posted: 2022-01
P.-H Nguyen , L.-A T Nguyen , H.-A T Pham , M.-A T Pham
Breaking ground in assessment: Integrated DEA and MCDM framework with spherical fuzzy sets for Vietnam's wire and cable sector
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 9 , issue 3 Posted: 2023-09
A Charnes , W W Cooper , E Rhodes
Measuring the efficiency of decision making units
Eur J Oper Res , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 429 - 444 Posted: 1978-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
RANK
819,493
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies