Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Property Licensing: A Catalyst for Innovation and New Venture Development

18 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2023

Oluwaseun Adesanya

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California; Pennsylvania State University, Penn State Law

Date Written: October 10, 2023

Abstract

Intellectual property (IP) rights such as patents, trademarks, and trade secrets play an indispensable role in protecting innovation and enabling the growth of new ventures. This paper provides an in-depth examination of how the licensing of IP rights facilitates innovation and startup development. It begins by outlining common provisions in IP licensing agreements, including specifying the parties, granted rights, considerations, obligations, and dispute resolution. The paper then analyzes the multifaceted role that IP plays in reducing risk, aiding research and development, and securing startup financing.

Effective IP protection preserves startups' competitive edge and signals value to investors, thereby lowering capital costs. IP licensing also enables startups to access technologies and form strategic partnerships with established firms. Additionally, the paper explores how corporate venturing funds utilize IP-based deals to invest in high-tech startups. It also discusses how licensing supports open innovation models between startups and incumbents. Overall, this analysis demonstrates that adept management and licensing of IP rights are vital for commercializing innovation and ensuring the growth and survival of technology startups. The paper concludes that IP is a crucial component of new ventures' business strategy.

Keywords: intellectual property, licensing, innovation, new ventures, startups, patents, research and development, venture capital, corporate venturing

Suggested Citation:

Adesanya, Oluwaseun, Intellectual Property Licensing: A Catalyst for Innovation and New Venture Development (October 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4597761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4597761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Stephen Haber
Patents and the Wealth of Nations
George Mason Law Review Posted: 2015
Enquiry into Intellectual Property's Economic Impact Posted: 2015
M Christopher , Kalanje
Chapter 5: Intellectual Property: Balancing incentives with Competitive Access Posted: 2002
J Cantwell
Innovation, Profits and Growth: Schumpeter and Penrose
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
289,981
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies