Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Green Supply Chain Management Practices on Corporate Environmental Performance: Does Supply Chain Competitive Advantage Matter?

Business Strategy and the Environment, 33(3), pp. 2578-2599 (2024).

49 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2023 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

John Wiredu

Northwestern Polytechnic University (NPU)

Qian Yang

Northwestern Polytechnic University (NPU)

Agyemang Kwasi Sampene

Northwestern Polytechnic University (NPU)

Bright Akwasi Gyamfi

Cyprus International University

Simplice Asongu

African Governance and Development Institute

Date Written: October 12, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of institutional pressure (IP), top management support (TMS), green supply chain management practices (GSCM), and supply chain competitive advantage (SCCA) on corporate environmental performance (EP). We also analyze the mediation effect of GSCM on the interplay between TMS and EP. Additionally, the paper also provides an analysis of the moderating role of SCCA between IP and EP. To attain the objective of this research, we assembled data from 710 business entities within the Shaanxi province of China utilizing a survey design approach. The structural equation model (SEM) was applied to test and assess the hypothetical outline. The study outcomes empirically show that TMS, GSCM, and SCCA positively and significantly impact EP. Interestingly, our study found an insignificant association between IP and EP. The study's results also demonstrate that IP directly relates to top management support. Moreover, the study's empirical findings reveal that GSCM positively mediates IP and EP. The study findings show that SCCA shapes IP and EP's connection. Accordingly, the practical implications of our study’s findings suggest that business managers, investors, and government agencies must know the importance of adopting sustainable practices within the supply chain. Business managers must take action to integrate environmental criteria into supplier selection, evaluate suppliers' environmental performance, and collaborate with eco-friendly suppliers. Hence, government agencies, stakeholders, and business managers can use this information to shape regulations and policies that encourage businesses to adopt sustainable supply chain practices. Offering incentives such as tax benefits or grants for sustainability initiatives can also promote adoption. The study recommends that a business culture that targets improving environmental performance due to institutional pressure and top management support is essential in achieving GSCM practices, thereby promising competitive advantage.

Keywords: Institutional pressure, Top management support, Competitive advantage, Environmental performance, Green supply chain management practices

Suggested Citation:

Wiredu, John and Yang, Qian and Sampene, Agyemang Kwasi and Akwasi Gyamfi, Bright and Asongu, Simplice, The Effect of Green Supply Chain Management Practices on Corporate Environmental Performance: Does Supply Chain Competitive Advantage Matter? (October 12, 2023). Business Strategy and the Environment, 33(3), pp. 2578-2599 (2024). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4599705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4599705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
M G Abbas , Z Wang , S Bashir , W Iqbal , H Ullah
Nexus between energy policy and environmental performance in China: The moderating role of green finance adopted firms
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 28 , issue 44 , p. 63263 - 63277 Posted: 2021
S Abdul , R Khan , Z Yu
Assessing the eco-environmental performance : an PLS-SEM approach with practice-based view
International Journal of Logistics Research and Applications Posted: 2021
M F Afraz , S H Bhatti , A Ferraris , J Couturier
The impact of supply chain innovation on competitive advantage in the construction industry: Evidence from a moderated multi-mediation model
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 162 Posted: 2020
J Aftab , N Abid , N Cucari , M Savastano
Green human resource management and environmental performance: The role of green innovation and environmental strategy in a developing country
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1782 - 1798 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,289
RANK
451,432
1 Citations
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies