Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance, ESG and sustainability: the underexplored role of ‘green’ trade marks

Intangibles: Accounting, Reporting and Valuation (2024) Edward Elgar

36 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2023 Last revised: 28 Apr 2024

Janice Denoncourt

Nottingham Law School

Date Written: October 11, 2023

Abstract

Global stakeholder interest in sustainable business performance has led to new regulations to report material corporate investment in tangible and intangibles assets and how they connect with the firm’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities. There is a growing trend for companies to adopt eco-friendly brand names and trade marks for their goods and services. Ownership of ‘green’ trade marks (registered and unregistered) for product and services marketing are a fundamental type of intangible asset that tends to increase in financial and economic value over time. To date however, corporate investment in ‘green’ trade marks and their connectivity with sustainability reporting and the corporate governance aim of eliminating the risk of greenwashing is underexplored. Nevertheless, while corporate trade mark portfolios have a material bearing on real profit and loss, cashflow and balance sheets, it is not straightforward for shareholders, investors, regulators and other stakeholders to accurately assess how these financial investments affect the quality of a company’s products, services and sustainability activities performance. This chapter examines the problem of companies making false, misleading or otherwise inaccurate ‘greenwashing’ statements regarding their environmental performance, sustainability practices, and credentials and the use of trade marks. Through a dual thematic framework comprising corporate governance systems to oversee market-related intangibles intersecting with trade mark law, this research contributes to interdisciplinary knowledge by systematically analysing the interrelationship between those fields. Recommendations to inform corporate governance reporting and connectivity with international sustainability standards corporate reporting and a Greenwashing Taskforce are made.

Keywords: Corporate governance, directors, disclosure quality, greenwashing, trade marks

JEL Classification: K2

Suggested Citation:

Denoncourt, Janice, Corporate governance, ESG and sustainability: the underexplored role of ‘green’ trade marks (October 11, 2023). Intangibles: Accounting, Reporting and Valuation (2024) Edward Elgar, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4599044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4599044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Although the UK has left the EU, section 6(3)(a) of the European (Withdrawal) Act 2018 EU-derived national law is still applied in accordance with EU law as it stood at the end of the transition period. The provisions of the Act relied on in these proceedings are derived from an EU Directive
I López
Sobre el desarrollo sostenible y la sostenibilidad: Conceptualización y crítica
Rev. Castell. Manch. Cienc. Soc , volume 20 , p. 111 - 128 Posted: 2015
A Legal Framework for Impact: Sustainability impact in investor decision-making Posted: 2005-10-18
The European Green Deal is a programme outlined in the political guidelines of EC President Ursula von der Leyen, see 'At a Glance Plenary Posted: 2019-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,181
RANK
183,491
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies