Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and the Allocation of Subsidies in China: the Role of Hometown Preference *

72 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2023 Last revised: 31 May 2025

Jingcheng Jiang

University of Tokyo

Date Written: May 01, 2022

Abstract

The allocation of industrial subsidies lies at the heart of economic development, yet is profoundly susceptible to the influence of political institutions. I show that informal channels, particularly politicians' hometowns, significantly distort the allocation of industrial spending to firms. Exploiting China's 2013 anti-corruption inspections as a quasi-natural experiment, I document that inspections reduce subsidies by 20.2% for firms in cities with local-born leaders. My novel measure of hometown favoritism--quantifying leaders born in each city but serving elsewhere--reveals that each additional leader a city produced before inspections results in a subsequent 2.2% subsidy reduction. Back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that corrupt subsidies linked to hometown connections cost approximately $2.2 billion, or 0.02% of China's GDP. The inspections also reduce ambiguously described subsidies, decrease those generated from illicit business expenses, and increase legitimate public spending due to a crowding-out effect. Notably, hometown firms exhibit improved productivity post-inspection despite receiving fewer subsidies, providing compelling evidence that politician-firm quid pro quo arrangements in the absence of effective constraints fundamentally misallocate resources and compromise the efficacy of industrial policy.

Keywords: JEL Codes: D37, H25, O25

JEL Classification: D73,G3,H25

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Jingcheng, Corruption and the Allocation of Subsidies in China: the Role of Hometown Preference * (May 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4601078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Cristina Bernini , Guido Pellegrini
How are growth and productivity in private firms affected by public subsidy? Evidence from a regional policy
Regional Science and Urban Economics , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 253 - 265 Posted: 2011
Marianne Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Are Emily and Greg more employable than Lakisha and Jamal? A field experiment on labor market discrimination
American economic review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 991 - 1013 Posted: 2004
Timothy Besley , Rohini Pande , Vijayendra Rao
Just rewards? Local politics and public resource allocation in South India
The World Bank Economic Review , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 216 Posted: 2012
David G Blanchflower , Phillip B Levine , David J Zimmerman
Discrimination in the small-business credit market
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 930 - 943 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
RANK
588,270
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies