Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Emergence of Independent Directors in Audit Committees: Strengthening Corporate Governance

6 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2023 Last revised: 7 Dec 2023

C. A. Saliya

Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology

Date Written: October 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper explores the factors underpinning this shift, the benefits it yields for corporations and stakeholders, and the overarching implications for corporate governance. In contemporary corporate governance, the role of independent directors within audit committees is gaining prominence. This transformation is driven by the imperative to uphold transparency, accountability, and shareholder interests.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) has amplified the responsibilities of boards of directors and audit committees, leading to a growing demand for professional directors who can dedicate themselves solely to board duties. The study delves into the relationship between professional directors within audit committees and their ability to enhance monitoring capabilities, utilizing unexplained bad debt expenses as an indicator of accounts receivable quality.

Results reveal that companies with a higher proportion of professional directors, particularly those with accounting backgrounds, exhibit lower levels of unexplained bad debt expenses, signifying improved accounts receivable quality. Independent directors’ inclusion in key roles such as the audit committee is aimed at mitigating conflicts of interest and safeguarding the integrity of financial reporting processes. Institutional investors, with significant stakes in numerous companies, are increasingly advocating for the appointment of independent directors to lead audit committees. These directors, often with backgrounds as university professors, bring critical thinking, objectivity, and expertise in evaluating proposals and assessing risks to the table, fostering transparency and ethical practices.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corruption, Investing culture, Transparency

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Saliya, Candauda Arachchige, The Emergence of Independent Directors in Audit Committees: Strengthening Corporate Governance (October 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
W Hu
US Political Corruption and Management Earnings Forecast
The 35 th ASIAN Finance Association Annual Meeting Posted: 2023-06-26
C A Saliya
Dynamics of credit decision-making: a taxonomy and a typological matrix
Review of Behavioral Finance Posted: 2020
C A Saliya
Credit capital, employment and poverty
International Journal of Money, Banking and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 12 Posted: 2019
C A Saliya , K Jayasinghe
Cultural Politics of Bank Lending for Development Financing in Sri Lanka
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 449 - 474 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,025
RANK
564,093
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies