Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Dividend Changes Reveal? Theory and Evidence From a Unique Environment

AlGhazali, A., Al-Yahyaee, K.H., Fairchild, R., and Guney, Y. (2023). What do dividend changes reveal? Theory and evidence from a unique environment. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting.

63 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2023

Abdullah AlGhazali

Dhofar University

Khamis Hamed Al-Yahyaee

Muscat University

Richard J. Fairchild

University of Bath - School of Management

Yilmaz Guney

Coventry University

Date Written: October 13, 2023

Abstract

We explore the reasons behind corporate dividend changes and factors driving those changes during 2001-2021 in Oman, as a unique environment. The implications of our paper contrast with the relevant existing literature which demonstrates a positive correlation between dividends and stock prices in Oman, in support of the signaling theory. Employing multiple methods and after controlling for the nonlinearity in the profitability process, we find virtually no evidence for the signaling theory of dividends for dividend reductions, in terms of future earnings. Furthermore, our analysis affirms the importance of current profitability in influencing the magnitude of and the propensity to change (increase or decrease) dividends in listed Omani firms. We also find that the catering theory of dividends does not have any explanatory power on dividend changes. Further, firms’ life-cycle status and real investments have been found to significantly affect the decision to change dividends. Our results, which depart from the findings in the conventional literature, can be attributed to the distinct institutional features in Oman. Our game-theoretic model of dividend signaling/dividend catering provides some explanations.

Keywords: Dividend, profitability, earnings, tax-based signaling theory, catering theory, investments, life cycle theory, Oman

JEL Classification: D82, G35

Suggested Citation:

AlGhazali, Abdullah and Al-Yahyaee, Khamis Hamed and Fairchild, Richard J. and Guney, Yilmaz, What Do Dividend Changes Reveal? Theory and Evidence From a Unique Environment (October 13, 2023). AlGhazali, A., Al-Yahyaee, K.H., Fairchild, R., and Guney, Y. (2023). What do dividend changes reveal? Theory and evidence from a unique environment. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4601940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
880,636
1 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies