Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Ownership and the Public Information Content of Insider Trading: International Evidence

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2023 Last revised: 5 Mar 2024

Md Zakir Hossain

The University of Western Australia; Coventry University

Man Duy (Marty) Pham

The University of Auckland Business School

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Jing Yu

The University of Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: October 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates the political determinants of informed insider trading using an international sample of firms from 28 countries. We show that insider trading in state-owned firms (SOEs) is statistically and economically more profitable and informative than in non-state-owned firms, indicating a unique political information advantage enjoyed by these insiders. Further analysis shows that insider trading in government-owned firms becomes more profitable during nationwide periods of political uncertainty and when industry-specific government actions are introduced. Moreover, the aggregate insider trading in SOEs better predicts future stock market returns than that in non-SOEs. These results suggest that the political information advantage of SOE insiders is evident in both the idiosyncratic and macroeconomic information content of insider trading, consistent with the superior ability of these insiders to interpret the economic impact of the country-, industry-, and firm-specific government actions.

Keywords: Informed insider trading, government ownership, information advantage, corporate governance.

JEL Classification: G14, G32, D82

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Md Zakir and Pham, Man and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Yu, Jing, Government Ownership and the Public Information Content of Insider Trading: International Evidence (October 13, 2023). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4601044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
H Ahir , N Bloom , D Furceri
The world uncertainty index Posted: 2022
D Anginer , A Donmez , H N Seyhun , R Zhang
Global economic impact of COVID-19: Evidence from insider trades Posted: 2020
H Ben-Nasr , N Boubakri , J C Cosset
The political determinants of the cost of equity: Evidence from newly privatized firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 605 - 646 Posted: 2012
H Ben-Nasr , N Boubakri , J C Cosset
Earnings quality in privatized firms: The role of state and foreign owners
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 392 - 416 Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Man Pham , Ha Nguyen , Yang Xiao
How well is employee ownership working? Evidence from non-financial misconduct
Finance Research Letters, 65: 105638 · 34 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
812
RANK
511,510
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies