Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Inside Debt Enhance Firms’ Access to Trade Credit?

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting

51 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2023 Last revised: 24 May 2024

Yucen Jiang

University of Northampton

Shruti R

Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Date Written: October 14, 2023

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether CEO inside debt, a compensation mechanism designed to align managers’ and debtholders’ interests, plays a role in facilitating firms’ ability to secure higher trade credit from their suppliers. We argue that CEO inside debt offers heightened assurance to trade creditors, resulting in their greater willingness to extend higher levels of trade credit. Firms perceive this as a favourable source of short-term financing compared to traditional bank financing due to its cost-effectiveness and considerably lower barriers to access. Contrary to the previous studies, our empirical analysis encompassing a sample of non-financial firms in the United States reveals a significant positive relationship between CEO inside debt and firms’ ability to secure trade credit. This confirms our assertion that trade credit suppliers’ increased willingness to accept a higher level of risk is driven by the confidence instilled by the CEO inside debt holdings. Furthermore, we show that this relationship is significantly stronger in financially constrained firms, where it serves as a critical assurance mechanism for suppliers of trade credit. Suggesting that CEO inside debt play a key role in sustaining financially constrained firms that are typically neglected by formal lending institutions.

Keywords: Trade Credit, Short-term Debt, Inside debt, Financial Constraints, CEO Compensation

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yucen and R, Shruti and Gupta, Jairaj, Does CEO Inside Debt Enhance Firms’ Access to Trade Credit? (October 14, 2023). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4602157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4602157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
G A Afrifa , I Tingbani , A Alshehabi , H Halabi
Short-term credit policies and operating performance
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 62 , issue 4 , p. 1755 - 1790 Posted: 2024
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
N Aktas , E De Bodt , F Lobez , J C Statnik
The information content of trade credit
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 1402 - 1413 Posted: 2012
C Atanasova
How do firms choose between intermediary and supplier finance?
Financial Management , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 228 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
695
RANK
635,835
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies