Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do State Enterprises Manage Earnings More than Privately Owned Firms? The Case of China

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting.(8), 794–812, 2011

36 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

Liu Wang

Providence College - School of Business

Kenneth Yung

Old Dominion University - Finance

Date Written: November 4, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of state ownership on earnings management. In contrast with the conventional belief that state ownership is the root of corporate inefficiency, we find lower levels of earnings management among state-owned enterprises than privately-owned firms in China even after controlling for the effect of tunneling. Further investigation suggests that the protection of state enterprises by the government might have played an important role in mitigating the pressure on managers to manipulate firm-specific information. Moreover, we find that the divergence in earnings quality between state-owned and privately-owned firms becomes less evident as the economy becomes more and more market driven.

Keywords: State Ownership, Earnings Management, Discretionary Accruals, Accruals Quality, Market Liberalization, China

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Liu and Yung, Kenneth, Do State Enterprises Manage Earnings More than Privately Owned Firms? The Case of China (November 4, 2011). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting.(8), 794–812, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4602922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4602922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
RANK
658,366
7 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies