Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Contemporary Accounting and International Business Research: Progress so far and Opportunities for the Future

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2023

Salvador Carmona

Instituto de Empresa

Igor Filatotchev

City University London - The Business School

Jan Hendrik Fisch

University of Hohenheim - Institute of Business Administration

Gilad Livne

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Date Written: October 15, 2023

Abstract

To date, the accounting and international business (IB) research fields have been developing rather independently, although some cross-discipline fertilization is emerging. This paper aims to illustrate the conceptual and empirical bridges between the two disciplines. Specifically, we highlight how contributions originating in either field have influenced theory and research in such diverse areas as corporate governance, risk management, taxation and strategic decision making in multinational enterprises (MNEs). Further, we identify examples where attention by accounting researchers to the IB literature has resulted in innovative research, including studies focusing on control systems and financial reporting in MNEs. Based on our discussion of the state of mutual contributions between the disciplines, we highlight various areas where future research could benefit from further integration of the accounting and IB literatures.

Keywords: Multinationals, corporate governance, financial reporting, strategic decision making, sustainability

JEL Classification: F20, M40

Suggested Citation:

Carmona, Salvador and Filatotchev, Igor and Fisch, Jan Hendrik and Livne, Gilad, Integrating Contemporary Accounting and International Business Research: Progress so far and Opportunities for the Future (October 15, 2023). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4602955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4602955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
692
RANK
713,531
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies