Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Corporate Social Responsibility More Valuable in Disrupted Industries?

Managerial Finance, 49 (10),1673-1690, 2023

34 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

Liu Wang

Providence College - School of Business

Yong Wang

Western New England University

Date Written: May 2023

Abstract

Purpose: The business world today is witnessing ever-growing disruption. This study highlights corporate social responsibility (CSR) as an effective strategy for firms in disrupted industries to consider in order to differentiate themselves and to increase their chance of survival facing disruption.

Methodology: In this study, we test our hypotheses using a multilevel modeling (MLM) design to capture the group and intergroup effects at the industry level and at the firm level. Our empirical analysis is based on a panel sample of 1,193 firms over the 10-year period from 2010 to 2019.

Findings: Our empirical analysis indicates that CSR has a positive impact on corporate financial stability and the effect is especially significant for firms in disrupted industries. Further investigation suggests that this positive effect largely runs through traits of the social pillar, such as human rights, employee relations, customer protection, product responsibility, and community impact. Our results are robust over time, after addressing endogeneity concerns, and after controlling for other firm-specific characteristics.

Originality: This study examines whether, and through which channel, CSR helps enhance corporate financial stability and mitigate bankruptcy risk in disrupted industries. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this study is the first attempt to explore the use of CSR as an effective strategic response to disruption. Further analysis indicates that the social capital built through CSR plays an important role in helping enhance corporate financial stability.

Keywords: Disruption, Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Stability, Bankruptcy Risk

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Liu and Wang, Yong, Is Corporate Social Responsibility More Valuable in Disrupted Industries? (May 2023). Managerial Finance, 49 (10),1673-1690, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4602936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4602936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
O Abbosh , P Nunes , V Savic , M Moore
Breaking through disruption: Embrace the power of the wise pivot Posted: 2019-08-15
K L Ailawadi , S A Neslin , Y J Luan , G A Taylor
Does retailer CSR enhance behavioral loyalty? A case for benefit segmentation
International Journal of Research in Marketing , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 156 - 167 Posted: 2014
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
819,493
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies