Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ESG Performance Contribute to Improved Corporate Financial Performance? --The Threshold Effect is Based on the Green Transition

34 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2023

Yonghong Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yuanyuan li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yiwen You

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xi Wei

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

ESG, as an emerging investment indicator, focuses on the greenness and sustainability of corporate development and is also a current research hotspot in the green governance process. In this paper, the relationship between corporate ESG performance and financial performance is explored using a fixed-effects model with Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listed companies from 2015–2020, and green transformation is used as a threshold variable to investigate whether ESG has a threshold effect on corporate financial performance. The results of the study show that: ESG performance can significantly improve the financial performance of enterprises;when the green transformation is used as a threshold variable, the effect of ESG on the financial performance of enterprises is more significant when it exceeds a certain threshold value. The findings provide empirical evidence to clarify the mechanism of the role between ESG performance, green transformation, and corporate financial performance and also promote the strengthening and improvement of the ESG concept.

Keywords: sustainable development, ESG performance, fixed effects, threshold effects, corporate financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yonghong and li, Yuanyuan and You, Yiwen and Wei, Xi, Does ESG Performance Contribute to Improved Corporate Financial Performance? --The Threshold Effect is Based on the Green Transition. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4603633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4603633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Wang Bo , Yang Maojia
A study on the mechanism of ESG performance on enterprise value--empirical evidence from A-share listed companies in China
Soft Science , volume 36 , issue 6 , p. 78 - 84 Posted: 2022
Li Jinglin , Yang Zhen , Chen Jin , Cui Wenqing
Study on the mechanism of ESG to promote corporate performance based on the perspective of corporate innovation
Science and Technology Management , volume 42 , issue 9 , p. 71 - 89 Posted: 2021
Zhangy , Y Ou
Doing well by doing good: How corporate environmental responsibility influences corporate financial performance
J]. Social Responsibility and Environmental Management Posted: 2021
Chi Zhang , Zhang , Zhaoguo , Lili Bao
Study on the interactive intertemporal impact of corporate environmental responsibility and financial performance and its mechanism of action[J]
Management Review , issue 2 , p. 76 - 89 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
935
RANK
377,290
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies