Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking Far or Close: The Explanatory Role of Myopic Management in the Relationship between CEO–TMT Power Disparity and Corporate Social Responsibility

Journal of Business Research, 2023

74 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2023

Shin Hyoung Kwon

Hanyang University ERICA

Joongseo Kim

Pennsylvania State University

Hyunsoon Yim

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: July 30, 2023

Abstract

We apply the approach/inhibition theory of power and tournament theory to explain how power disparities between a CEO and a top management team (TMT) lead to myopic management in a firm that, in turn, influences its corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. Specifically, we analyze panel data from multiple sources (i.e., KLD, ExecuComp, and Compustat) over a 12year period and find that CEO–TMT power disparity, measured by pay slice, is positively associated with myopic management that, in turn, leads to a reduction in CSR performance. Furthermore, we decompose total power disparities into short- (e.g., salary and bonus) and longterm (e.g., stock option) power disparities. Our results suggest that CEOs receiving relatively greater short-term compensation than that of TMTs are more likely to engage in myopic management, leading to their firm’s reduced CSR practices. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of this study.

Keywords: CEO–TMT power disparity, myopic management, corporate social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Shin Hyoung and Kim, Joongseo and Yim, Hyunsoon, Looking Far or Close: The Explanatory Role of Myopic Management in the Relationship between CEO–TMT Power Disparity and Corporate Social Responsibility (July 30, 2023). Journal of Business Research, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4603418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4603418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
P S Adler , K Ferdows
The chief technology officer
California Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 55 - 62 Posted: 1990
C Anderson , J L Berdahl
The experience of power: Examining the effects of power on approach and inhibition tendencies
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1362 - 1377 Posted: 2002
C Anderson , A D Galinsky
Power, optimism, and risk-taking
European Journal of Social Psychology , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 511 - 536 Posted: 2006
L A Arendt , R L Priem , H A Ndofor
A CEO-adviser model strategic decision making
Journal of Management , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 680 - 699 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
702,914
2 Citations
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies