Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Executives' Strategies for Operational Resilience Amidst Crisis

154 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2023

Dr. Vanessa Gurley Holloway

Columbia Southern University

Date Written: August 29, 2023

Abstract

The world has experienced an unprecedented crisis, COVID-19. During the pandemic, devastation occurred, with loss of life, economic distress, and survival threats. Every business sector was affected by lockdowns and social distancing protocols, including the banking industry. Banks failed during COVID-19, and bank branches disappeared. In the face of crisis, resilient bank- organizations adapted amidst threats to their primary business functions, banking services. Operational resilience describes organizations that successfully thrive amidst a crisis. The target population for this qualitative research study comprised eight bank executives. It explored the strategies implemented in bank organizations to mitigate the effects of the crisis for operational re- silience. The research questions were: RQ1: What self-perceived factors do banking executives indicate as having the potential to impact operational resilience in the banking industry? RQ2: What self-perceived strategies do banking executives have regarding improving operational resilience in the banking industry? The Crisis Management theory was the theoretical framework for this study. Data collection occurred through semi-structured virtual interviews. Dedoose, a data analytical tool, supported coding and thematic analysis resulting in nine emerged themes for operational resilience: Financial Soundness, Superior Technological Capabilities, AI Innovation, All Hazard Risk Management Mitigation, Build Out Remote Capabilities, Deliver Critical Operations Amidst Disruption, Effective Communication, Engage All Associates, and Full Engagement of Customers. These key crisis management mitigation strategies preceded precise application for operational resilience in the banking industry.

Keywords: Banking Industry, COVID-19, Crisis Management, Crisis Mitigation, Operational Resilience, Organizational Resilience.

JEL Classification: E12

Suggested Citation:

Gurley Holloway, Dr. Vanessa, Bank Executives' Strategies for Operational Resilience Amidst Crisis (August 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4604643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4604643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
According To Kwan
Anthony (2021) asserted that the population turned to digital payments, credit, and debit cards because of the coin shortage. Beretta and Neuberger (2021), in The War on Cash: Institutional Hostility and COVID-19, argued that cash remains essential. The author acknowledged that the Covid-19 pandemic gave digitization a boost through government-mandated physical lockdowns and the physical fear some people had that cash helped spread the virus. Klein (2020) examined the influence of both the financial sector and the government on cash aversion both before and after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The author argued that cash was unjustifiably accused of facilitating illicit transactions, that the COVID-19 pandemic was misused to push individuals away from banknotes and coins, and that cash enhanced welfare in troubled economic times. However, organizations' adoption of technological innovations has increased over the past few years, and technological changes improve efficiency and quality, bring products to the market faster, and expand employee expertise
Wells Fargo reported an 81% increase in mobile deposits in Posted: 2018
B Adams , J Gans , R Hayes , R Lampe
Does Organisational Form Drive Competition? Evidence from Coffee Retailing
Economic Record , volume 94 , issue 305 , p. 155 - 167 Posted: 2018
R Alas , J Gao
Crisis Management in Chinese Organizations Posted: 2012
J Amankwah-Amoah , Z Khan , G Wood
Covid-19 and business failures: The paradoxes of experience, scale, and scope for theory and Practice
European Management Journal , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 184 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
556,453
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies