Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Performance and Innovation Quality

25 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2023

Yanqiong Li

Shanxi University

Sihao Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Using a sample of Chinese A-share listed firms from 2009 to 2020, we examine the impact of a firm’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance on its innovation quality. Our findings suggest that better ESG performance contributes to higher innovation quality. This conclusion remains unchanged after a series of robustness tests. Additional analysis shows that when a firm has a good internal control or a high risk-tolerance, the impact of ESG performance on innovation quality is more pronounced. Finally, we find that better ESG performance also brings higher patent value to a firm. Our results provide policy guidance on promoting ESG and high-quality innovation of firms.

Keywords: ESG, innovation quality, patent complexity

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yanqiong and Li, Sihao, ESG Performance and Innovation Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4604032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4604032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
P Aghion , N Bloom , N Blundell
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
M Benlemlih , M Bitar
Corporate social responsibility and investment efficiency
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 148 , p. 647 - 671 Posted: 2018
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
D C Broadstock , K Chan , L T W Cheng , X W Wang
The role of ESG performance during times of financial crisis: Evidence from COVID-19 in China
Finance Research Letters , volume 38 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
658
RANK
312,896
4 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies