Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reactions to Apologies for Financial Misconduct

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Fynn Ohlrogge

Maastricht University

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

An-Sofie Claeys

Ghent University

Date Written: October 4, 2023

Abstract

We conduct three experiments to examine the implications of corporate apologies on investors' reactions to allegations of financial misconduct. In Experiment 1, we manipulate whether the firm apologizes or denies the misconduct. Additionally, we manipulate how the firm apologizes for (denies) the misconduct by comparing “basic” response strategies (i.e., responses containing nothing more than a simple apology or denial) with “full” response strategies (i.e., responses containing additional elements, such as explicitly naming the misconduct). We find that investors are less willing to invest when the firm apologizes than denies it. Using mediation analysis, we find that when investors observe an apology, they attribute more responsibility to the management for the events, leading to a lower perception of credibility and a higher perception of litigation risk, ultimately affecting their investment judgment. Our results do not provide evidence that more extensive responses affect investors differently than more basic apologies or denials. In Experiment 2, we investigate self-disclosure as a potential strategy for firms to mute investors' negative reactions to apologies. Our results replicate the findings of Experiment 1. However, we do not find evidence that management can attenuate the adverse effects of apologizing for misconduct by self-disclosing the misconduct. In Experiment 3, we separate whether the apology includes an acceptance of responsibility or not and whether there is subsequent evidence of guilt or evidence of innocence. Surprisingly, investors do not react more favorably to apologies (with or without acceptance of responsibility) than denials, even when evidence substantiates the allegations. Overall, our study demonstrates that it is difficult for managers to attenuate the negative effects of financial misconduct on investors’ perceptions with apologies.

Keywords: Apologies, Investor judgment, Financial misconduct, SEC investigations, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G02, G11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ohlrogge, Fynn and Hardies, Kris and Claeys, An-Sofie, Investor Reactions to Apologies for Financial Misconduct (October 4, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4605989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4605989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Apple's special committee reports findings of stock option investigation Posted: 2006-10-04
L M Arpan , D Pompper
Stormy weather: Testing "stealing thunder" as a crisis communication strategy to improve communication flow between organizations and journalists
Public Relations Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 308 Posted: 2003
L M Arpan , D R Roskos-Ewoldsen
Stealing thunder: Analysis of the effects of proactive disclosure of crisis information
Public Relations Review , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 433 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
388,737
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies