Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Regulation and Financial Reporting Quality: Friends or Foes?

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 61, No. 105017, 2024

22 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023 Last revised: 16 Feb 2024

Dalit Gafni

College of Management (Israel)

Rimona Palas

College of Law and Business

Ido Baum

Haim Striks Faculty of Law - College of Management

Dov Solomon

College of Law and Business - Ramat Gan Law School

Date Written: October 19, 2023

Abstract

The growing focus on ESG policies has sparked discussions about whether companies should be required to make ESG disclosures. A major concern is that companies use high ESG ratings to divert attention from poor performance, which is hidden by their low financial reporting quality (FRQ). Looking at U.S.-listed companies from 2012 to 2022, we find that high ESG ratings do not come at the expense of FRQ. Furthermore, the heightened focus on ESG performance following the 2019 Business Roundtable statement had a positive impact on FRQ. Our findings suggest that regulation mandating ESG disclosures is likely to improve FRQ.

Keywords: ESG, financial regulation, mandatory disclosure, ESG rating, Earnings quality, financial reports

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gafni, Dalit and Palas, Rimona and Baum, Ido and Solomon, Dov, ESG Regulation and Financial Reporting Quality: Friends or Foes? (October 19, 2023). Finance Research Letters, Vol. 61, No. 105017, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4606731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4606731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
higher ESG ratings do not exploit these ratings to divert attention from inadequate financial information, thereby lending support to the case for ESG reporting requirements. From a practical perspective, our findings suggest that regulators should advocate for mandatory ESG reporting, as it seems to correlate with higher FRQ. This will likely enhance transparency and reliability in financial markets. Investors as well as enforcement agencies might consider ESG as indicators of a company's financial reporting reliability. High ESG scores could signal less risk of financial misreporting, making these companies potentially safer investments or less prone to wrongdoing. At the company level, management could focus on improving ESG performance not only to appeal
Bibliography
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
H Al-Shaer
Sustainability Reporting Quality and Post-Audit Financial Reporting Quality: Empirical Evidence from the UK. Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 29 , p. 2355 - 2373 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
733
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
79,770
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies