Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Induced Organizational Complexity and Executive Performance Measurement

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4606256

65 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2023

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Ginger Scanlon

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: October 18, 2023

Abstract

We examine how tax-induced organizational complexity (“TIOC”), which we define as the organizational complexity that would not exist in a zero-tax world, is associated with executive performance measurement. While these structures can facilitate lower tax burdens, firms need to design their performance measurement systems to encourage executives to manage the associated complexity to avoid potential negative consequences. Using firms’ subsidiary structures in tax havens and other low tax countries to measure TIOC, we document several main findings. We find that TIOC is associated with longer-term performance measurement, consistent with boards wanting executives to manage both the short-run tax benefits and longer-run costs associated with TIOC. We also find that TIOC is associated with a greater propensity to use adjusted performance metrics, consistent with firms correcting standard metrics for measurement error and bias introduced by TIOC. Finally, we find that TIOC is associated with a greater usage of unique metrics and lower similarity in metrics across the executive team, consistent with TIOC creating heterogenous activities that top managers need to monitor and manage in support of optimizing taxes. Our study contributes to the tax and managerial accounting literatures by shedding light on how firms manage TIOC via performance measurement.

Keywords: Performance measurement, tax planning, organizational complexity

JEL Classification: H25, H26, J33, M12

Suggested Citation:

Gallemore, John and Labro, Eva and Scanlon, Ginger, Tax-Induced Organizational Complexity and Executive Performance Measurement (October 18, 2023). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4606256, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4606256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4606256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A M Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z M Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages Posted: 2022
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 1994
T Baldenius , S D Dyreng
Special Interest Forum on the Interface between Managerial Accounting and Tax
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2021
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
411,549
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies