Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Public with IPOs and SPAC Mergers

51 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023 Last revised: 3 Dec 2024

Rongbing Huang

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Jay R. Ritter

University of Florida - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate

Donghang Zhang

University of South Carolina

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

The vast majority of “liquidity events” by successful venture capital (VC)-backed companies are trade sales in which the company is sold to a larger firm in the same industry. Many of the most successful startups, however, remain independent and go public either by conducting an initial public offering (IPO) or, more recently, merging with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC), a transaction known as a deSPAC. Companies conducting an IPO when they have more than $100 million in inflation-adjusted sales have produced much higher subsequent returns for public market investors than have smaller companies, whether VC-backed or not. Since 1999, VC-backed IPOs have had higher first-day returns than other IPOs, but have had lower subsequent returns. DeSPACs have produced far worse returns for investors than IPOs.

Keywords: Initial Public Offerings, SPACs, deSPACs, VC-backed IPOs, tech IPOs, life science IPOs, direct listings

JEL Classification: G30, 32, 34, 38, G24, G14

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rongbing and Ritter, Jay R. and Zhang, Donghang, Going Public with IPOs and SPAC Mergers (December 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Dhruv Aggarwal , Offer Eldar , Yael V Hochberg , P Lubomir , Litov
The rise of dualclass stock IPOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 122 - 153 Posted: 2022
Alon Brav , Paul A Gompers
Myth or reality? The long-run underperformance of initial public offerings: Evidence from venture and nonventure capital-backed companies
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1791 - 1821 Posted: 1997
David J Brophy , P Paige , Clemens Ouimet , Sialm
Hedge funds as investors of last resort?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 541 - 574 Posted: 2009
Eliot Brown , Maureen Farrell
The Cult of We: WeWork, Adam Neumann, and the Great Startup Delusion Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,180
RANK
143,403
20 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies