Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management During the Earnout Period of Private Targets

42 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Arne Voßmann

Ruhr University of Bochum

Date Written: October 20, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the impact of different earnout agreement designs on earnings management practices during the earnout period. Using a sample of 156 private earnout targets, it reveals that seller-managed private targets with accounting-based earnout goals engage in upward earnings management to increase the deferred payment, utilizing both accrual-based and real earnings management methods. In contrast, acquirer-managed private targets with accounting-based earnout goals do not engage in earnings management during the earnout period. Comparing earnout with similar non-earnout M&A targets confirms that the use of earnings management by seller-managed targets is attributable to the earnout agreement. This paper adds an important perspective by analyzing private targets, distinguishing between seller and acquirer control, and considering the performance measure and exact earnout period. The findings contribute to the understanding of earnings management dynamics in earnout agreements, offering insights for practitioners and complementing prior literature in this field.

Keywords: M&A, Earnout agreements, Earnings management, Private targets, Control structure, Earnout design

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Voßmann, Arne, Earnings Management During the Earnout Period of Private Targets (October 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M Alhadab , I Clacher , K Keasey
A Comparative Analysis of Real and Accrual Earnings Management around Initial Public Offerings under Different Regulatory Environments
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 43 , issue 7-8 , p. 849 - 871 Posted: 2016
K D Allee , D D Wangerin
Auditor monitoring and verification in financial contracts: evidence from earnouts and SFAS 141(R)
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1629 - 1664 Posted: 2018
L G Barbopoulos , S Sudarsanam
Determinants of earnout as acquisition payment currency and bidder's value gains
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , p. 678 - 694 Posted: 2012
E Bartov , D A Cohen
The "Numbers Game" in the Preand Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
RANK
580,030
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies