Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religious CEOS and Earnings Informativeness

56 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2023

James Bierstaker

Villanova University

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Johnny Lee

Drexel University

Tao Sun

CUNY Queens College

Abstract

This study compares the earnings informativeness of firms with religious CEOs with firms without religious CEOs. We manually collect the religious affiliation of ExecuComp CEOs through Marquis Who’s Who and other sources. Our results show that firms with religious CEOs have more informative earnings compared with firms with non-religious CEOs. Also, there is a stronger association between current earnings and future cash flows for firms with religious CEOs than for firms with non-religious CEOs. Additionally, we find that the positive impact of religious CEOs on earnings informativeness is more pronounced when investors face high uncertainty of information contained in the 10-K (i.e., low 10-K readability), when firms are located in areas with lower religious social norms, and when firms have weaker corporate governance. Lastly, we find that earnings are more conservative for firms with religious CEOs than for firms with non-religious CEOs. Overall, our results suggest that CEO religion plays an important role for earnings attributes and our findings are informative to financial statement users and policymakers in understanding the role of CEO personal religion on corporate outcomes.

Keywords: Religious CEO, Earnings informativeness, Earnings conservatism, Cash flows

Suggested Citation:

Bierstaker, James and Chen, Lucy Huajing and Lee, Johnny Jiung-Yee and Sun, Tao, Religious CEOS and Earnings Informativeness. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
B R Agle , H Van Buren
God and Mammon: The modern relationship
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 9 , p. 563 - 582 Posted: 1999
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
RANK
545,411
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies