Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Social Trust and State Ownership on Investment Efficiency of Chinese Firms

Fonseka, M.M., Samarakoon, Lalith P., Tian, Gao-Liang, and Seng, Ratney, 2021. 'The Impact of Social Trust and State Ownership on Investment Efficiency of Chinese Firms,' Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions & Money, 74(C).

58 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2023

Mohan Fonseka

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Lalith P. Samarakoon

University of St. Thomas

Gao-Liang Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Ratney Seng

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the impact of social trust, the state ownership and their joint effects on investment efficiency in China using 6,885 firm-year observations from 2010 to 2018. We find that higher social trust is associated with higher investment efficiency, and the state ownership leads to lower investment efficiency. The SOEs exhibit higher under and over-investment problems relative to non-SOEs. The lower investment efficiency of SOEs is further amplified in provinces with higher social trust. These findings are consistent with agency and information asymmetry explanations, and robust to endogeneity and alternative measurement of variables.

Keywords: Social trust, Ownership, investment efficiency, agency theory, corporate governance, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G31, G32, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Fonseka, M. M. and Samarakoon, Lalith P. and Tian, Gao-Liang and Seng, Ratney, The Impact of Social Trust and State Ownership on Investment Efficiency of Chinese Firms (July 1, 2021). Fonseka, M.M., Samarakoon, Lalith P., Tian, Gao-Liang, and Seng, Ratney, 2021. 'The Impact of Social Trust and State Ownership on Investment Efficiency of Chinese Firms,' Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions & Money, 74(C)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4609066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4609066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Y Algan , P Cahuc
Inherited Trust and Growth
American Economic Review , volume 100 , issue 5 , p. 2060 - 2092 Posted: 2010
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
J Ang , Y Cheng , C Wu
Trust, investment and business contracting
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 569 - 595 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
662,989
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies