Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Earnouts Create the Right Incentives?: Earnings Management Around Earnout-Based Acquisitions

48 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2023

Pedro Coelho

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management; University of Minho

Gilberto R. Loureiro

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate whether acquiring firms with earnout agreements engage in earnings management during the earnout period. Using a sample of completed deals between 1998 and 2017, we find that acquirers manage their earnings downwards during the earnout period to avoid or reduce the earnout payment to the target. We also show that lower earnout payments are associated with greater earnings manipulation. Moreover, only earnout deals with a first payment in cash are associated with income decreasing earnings management through real activities. Our findings also indicate that acquirers are more likely to engage more in real earnings management than accrual-based earnings management during the earnout period.

Keywords: Earnouts, Mergers and Acquisitions, Earnings Management, Contingent Payments.

Suggested Citation:

Coelho, Pedro and Loureiro, Gilberto R., Do Earnouts Create the Right Incentives?: Earnings Management Around Earnout-Based Acquisitions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4609196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4609196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
451,432
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies