Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combating Overbilling in Outsourced Projects: A Dynamic Auditing Mechanism

53 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2023 Last revised: 2 Jul 2025

Like Bu

University of Texas at Dallas

Shivam Gupta

University of Nebraska Lincoln - College of Business

Milind Dawande

University of Texas at Dallas - Department of Information Systems & Operations Management

Ganesh Janakiraman

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: June 30, 2025

Abstract

Firms routinely outsource their business requirements to external agents for many reasons; e.g., to focus on their core competencies or to save costs. However, overbilling by agents has been well-acknowledged as a notorious problem across major industries, including healthcare, information technology, legal services, engineering, and consulting. Mitigating overbilling is challenging in practice; typical options for firms include auditing agents or suspending relationships with them. While firms would like to combat overbilling by utilizing these options, they also want to minimize their total cost, including agents’ payments and auditing cost. We consider a repeated principal-agent setting in which, in each period, the principal makes two decisions: (i) Whether to allocate the task to the agent or an outside option. (ii) If the agent executes the task, whether to audit the agent's cost. We propose a class of Dynamic Auditing mechanisms under which it is near-optimal for the agent to report his costs truthfully and the principal's cost is also near-optimal, for sufficiently large discount factors. We are the first to investigate the role of auditing in repeated settings – we show that auditing is an effective tool for the principal if either (i) the unit cost of auditing is sufficiently small, or (ii) the principal lacks knowledge of the agent's cost distribution. We also show that our results are robust when there is competition among multiple agents for the principal's business.

Keywords: overbilling, auditing, dynamic mechanism design, approximate incentive compatibility

Suggested Citation:

Bu, Like and Gupta, Shivam and Dawande, Milind and Janakiraman, Ganesh, Combating Overbilling in Outsourced Projects: A Dynamic Auditing Mechanism (June 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4609263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Arora , W Wei , S Solak
Improving outcomes in child care subsidy voucher programs under regional asymmetries , volume 30 , p. 4435 - 4454 Posted: 2021
E M Azevedo , E Budish
Strategy-proofness in the large
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 116 Posted: 2019
S R Balseiro , O Besbes , F Castro
Mechanism design under approximate incentive compatibility
Operations Research Posted: 2022
S R Balseiro , H Gurkan , P Sun
Multiagent mechanism design without money
Operations Research , volume 67 , issue 5 , p. 1417 - 1436 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
RANK
448,944
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies