Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability and Firm Value: A New Perspective

Research in International Business and Finance. Forthcoming.

45 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2023

Nader Atawnah

United Arab Emirates University (UAEU) - College of Business and Economics

Arman Eshraghi

Cardiff Business School

Ghasan Baghdadi

La Trobe University - La Trobe Business School - Department of Finance

Ishaq Bhatti

La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Using a sample of U.S. firms over three decades, we examine whether the efficiency with which managers generate revenue has an impact on firm value. We find that managerial ability is positively related to firm value such that one standard deviation increase in ability is associated with a 5.7% increase in firm value relative to the mean level. Importantly, by exploiting exogenous CEO turnover, we establish causality between managerial ability and firm value. Moreover, this link is more pronounced in the presence of corporate governance mechanisms, such as institutional investors and financial analysts. We also document a reduction in value-destroying practices, such as earnings management, in firms with more efficient managers.

Keywords: Managerial Ability, Firm Value, Corporate Governance, CEO Turnover

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M12

Suggested Citation:

Atawnah, Nader and Eshraghi, Arman and Baghdadi, Ghasan and Bhatti, Ishaq, Managerial Ability and Firm Value: A New Perspective (2023). Research in International Business and Finance. Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4610388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "wall street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
S S Alharbi , N Atawnah , M J Ali , A Eshraghi
Gambling culture and earnings management: A novel perspective
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 86 , p. 520 - 539 Posted: 2023
S Alharbi , M Al Mamun , N Atawnah
Uncovering real earnings management: Pay attention to risk-taking behavior
International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 9 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
264,473
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies