Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Assurance of Carbon Disclosures Indicates Possible Underestimates in Reported European Corporate Emissions Data

JRC Working Papers in Economics and Finance 2023/9

40 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2023

Georgios Papadopoulos

Bank of Greece

Date Written: August 25, 2023

Abstract

Company carbon disclosures are crucial in assessing a firm's impact on the environment, and many policy actions are associated with this information. As a response to the increasing demand for transparency, many firms disclose carbon emissions through sustainability reports and voluntarily engage with external assurance of the reported information. However, the possible existence of systematic differences in reported emissions with respect to their assurance status is still under-explored. This study investigates the causal effect of third-party assurance on carbon disclosures in a sample of European companies. Findings suggest that non-assuring firms may be under-reporting their direct GHG emissions by up to a magnitude comparable to the largest annual reduction of EU emissions in history. On the contrary, the effect of assurance is much weaker to almost absent in indirect, Scope 2, emissions possibly due to their clear and easily verifiable estimation nature. The findings demonstrate that third-party assurance can provide more reliable and certainly more prudent estimates of corporate GHG emissions which are relevant to corporate sustainability strategy, policymaking and, ultimately, climate change mitigation.

Keywords: external assurance, corporate carbon disclosure, company GHG emissions, climate change

JEL Classification: M42, Q54, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Papadopoulos, Georgios, External Assurance of Carbon Disclosures Indicates Possible Underestimates in Reported European Corporate Emissions Data (August 25, 2023). JRC Working Papers in Economics and Finance 2023/9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4611995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4611995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
RANK
667,795
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies