Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Climate Regulations Uncertainty on default risk of ESG Firms: Evidence from USA

Posted: 25 Oct 2023 Last revised: 27 Oct 2024

Syeda Beena Zaidi

Sukkur IBA University - Business Administration Department

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

Climate change is widely recognized as a significant global concern. Climate hazards have the potential to exert inescapable impact on various economic sectors, corporations particularly financial markets. The majority of nations have made commitments to intensify their efforts in addressing the issue of climate change. Motivating by the complex dynamics of climate regulatory framework changes and ESG initiatives this study aims to examine the influence of climate regulatory uncertainty and ESG activities on default risk of firms based in USA over the time span of 2014 to 2023. The analysis incorporates Altman z-score (Meles et al., 2023) to assess firms’ default risk. The study utilized panel regression analysis with fixed effects to assess the default risk of firms. Additionally, to deal with the issues of endogeneity 2sls and two step system GMM approaches have been applied for robust results. The findings revealed that CPU has positive significant impact on firms’ default risk. However, when ESG initiatives were included the effect size of CPU has reduced, it indicates that ESG effectively provide the cushion against uncertain circumstances and risk related to the frequent changes in climate policies. This study offers useful insights about climate related risk mitigation under uncertainty for both corporations and the investment analysts.

Keywords: Climate Policy Uncertainty, Default Risk, ESG

JEL Classification: B26, C36, D53, D81, F65, G32, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Zaidi, Syeda Beena, Impact of Climate Regulations Uncertainty on default risk of ESG Firms: Evidence from USA (October 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4611219
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies