Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting and Disclosure in Banking

Chapter in forthcoming 4th Edition of the Oxford Handbook of Banking

53 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2023

Anne Beatty

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

The rules governing financial accounting and disclosure in the banking industry often change in response to economic crises. This chapter reviews the recent literature in four areas of research that have been directly affected by both the recent string of bank failures in the United States and the Global Financial Crisis. These areas are fair value accounting, loan loss provisioning, accounting quality and monitoring mechanisms, and stress test disclosures. These rule changes in response to crises often also serve as natural experiments where researchers use difference-in-differences analyses to identify the effect of rule changes. Because of the importance of the policy implications of these studies, we also discuss recent developments in econometrics relating to this research design. Throughout the chapter we offer potentially fruitful avenues for future research related to each of these areas.

Keywords: Accounting, CECL, Fair Value, Accounting Quality, Stress Tests, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G21, G01

Suggested Citation:

Beatty, Anne L. and Iselin, Michael and Liao, Scott, Financial Accounting and Disclosure in Banking (October 24, 2023). Chapter in forthcoming 4th Edition of the Oxford Handbook of Banking, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4611592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4611592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
V Acharya , A Berger , R Roman
Lending Implications of U.S. Bank Stress Tests: Costs or Benefits
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 34 , p. 58 - 90 Posted: 2018
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent Regulators: Evidence from Banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
S Agarwal , X An , L Cordell , R A Roman
Bank Stress Test Results and Their Impact on Consumer Credit Markets Posted: 2020
A Ahmed , B Christensen , A Olson , C Yust
Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors with Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes around the Global Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
595
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,160
RANK
104,285
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies