Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing with Leviathan: Law and Government Ownership in China’s Public-Private Partnership Market

International Review of Law and Economics, Vol. 76, 2023

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-32

63 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2023

James Si Zeng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 25, 2023

Abstract

Despite years of economic reform, government-owned enterprises (GOEs) continue to be prevalent in certain sectors of China’s economy. Drawing on empirical evidence from China’s public-private partnership (PPP) market, this article empirically tests whether the theory of the ownership of enterprise can explain the distribution of GOEs in China. It first conducts an empirical study on the disclosed judgments of Chinese courts to show that the enforcement of PPP contracts remains relatively weak in China, which gives rise to the concern of government opportunism. It then presents empirical evidence that the level of government ownership in each project correlates with the chances of government opportunism, which can be measured by project duration, project sector, and renegotiation terms in the contract. These findings show that the level of government ownership is affected by two competing forces—ownership costs and transaction costs. While GOEs incur relatively high ownership costs, they generally incur lower transaction costs because they can curb government opportunism and thus can outcompete private firms in some projects.

Suggested Citation:

Zeng, James Si, Competing with Leviathan: Law and Government Ownership in China’s Public-Private Partnership Market (October 25, 2023). International Review of Law and Economics, Vol. 76, 2023, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2023-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4612569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4612569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
; Geis , L Paul , ; Joskow , Scott E Masten , J L Econ
Vertical Integration and Long-Term Contracts: The Case of Coal-Burning Electric Generating Plants, 1
J. L. ECON. & ORG , volume 33 , p. 403 - 417 Posted: 1984
L Paul , Joskow , J Keith , Scott E Crocker , Masten
Contract Duration and Relationship-Specific Investments: Empirical Evidence from Coal Markets, 77 THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
Paul L Joskow, Asset specificity and the structure of vertical relationships: Empirical evidence, 4 THE JOURNAL OF LAW , volume 19 , p. 327 - 343 Posted: 1987
See supra Section II
For example, China Communications Construction Company Limited, one of the largest GOEs conducting business in infrastructure development, made a profit of 28.5 billion RMB (roughly 4 billion USD) in 2021. Whether it is sustainable is another question. Empirical studies show that the managers of the GOEs are also under pressure to pursue profits in order to gain promotion to a senior governmental position. Ruilong Yang. Promotion Mechanism of
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
667,795
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies