Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Paradox of ESG Investing: Greenwashing vs. Real Impact

53 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2023 Last revised: 17 Nov 2024

Huiyao Chen

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: May 19, 2023

Abstract

I propose a model to examine how investors with ESG preferences jointly influence firms' real green investments and greenwashing. Paradoxically, stronger investor ESG preferences may reduce real green investments due to increased greenwashing, which undermines the reliability of ESG information. When this information distortion is severe, firms are disincentivized to make real green investments, as the market-perceived ESG gains are obscured by misinformation, while the financial costs of green investments are still reflected in stock prices. This paradox is most likely to occur when the cost of manipulating ESG information is low, the correlation between ESG and financial fundamentals is weak, and financial information quality is high. Additionally, brown firms with poorer financial performance tend to greenwash more. These findings raise concerns that ESG investing could backfire without effective disclosure regulations. I analyze two practical measures to enhance real impact: diversifying green technology options and linking executive pay to ESG outcomes.

Keywords: ESG investing, greenwashing, real effects, information manipulation

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huiyao, The Paradox of ESG Investing: Greenwashing vs. Real Impact (May 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4612077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4612077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Mandatory vs. voluntary esg disclosure, efficiency, and real effects
Nanyang Business School Research Paper , p. 22 - 41 Posted: 2023
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with esg rating uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , issue 2 , p. 642 - 664 Posted: 2022
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J D Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory esg disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2022
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,994
RANK
92,554
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies