Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grading bank managers: governance and performance implications of managerial ratings

51 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023

Salman Arif

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Robert M. Bushman

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Yadav Gopalan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 25, 2023

Abstract

Banks face corporate and regulatory governance pressures. A critical tool of regulatory governance is direct monitoring by bank supervisors. Supervisors assess banks using a multi-dimensional rating scheme, including a rating of top management teams (M-rating). We examine implications of M-ratings from the distinct, but complementary perspectives of managerial capital and managerial discipline. We document that better M-ratings are associated with fewer future non-performing loans and lower likelihood of bank failure. Consistent with managerial capital commanding a higher performance premium during challenging economic times, we find that higher macro-economic uncertainty magnifies the performance premium associated with M-ratings. Relatedly, the value of managerial capital is conditional on bank fundamentals, where M-ratings positively influence future performance when they exceed the composite supervisory rating but have a negative effect when lower than the composite rating. Consistent with M-ratings serving an implicit incentive role through managers’ career concerns, we document that for poorly performing banks, higher M-ratings decrease the probability of CEO turnover. Overall, our study provides the first large-sample evidence of how bank regulators assess banks’ managerial capital and how M-ratings affect bank corporate governance.

Keywords: Subjective Performance Evaluation, Bank Supervision, Banking, Financial Institutions, Bank Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Arif, Salman and Bushman, Robert M. and Donovan, John and Gopalan, Yadav, Grading bank managers: governance and performance implications of managerial ratings (October 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4612147 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4612147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Sumit Agarwal , David Lucca , Amit Seru , Francesco Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Byeongchan An , Robert Bushman , Anya Kleymenova , Tomy Rimmy , E
Bank Supervision and Organizational Capital: The Case of Minority Lending Posted: 2023
Panayiotis C Andreou , Dennis Philip , Peter Robejsek
Bank liquidity creation and risk-taking: Does managerial ability matter?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 43 , p. 226 - 259 Posted: 2016
Salman Arif , John Donovan , Yadav Gopalan , Arthur Morris
Pay for prudence
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Jannis Bischof , Nicolas Rudolf
Manager characteristics and the informativeness of banks’ loan loss provisioning
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
377,290
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies