Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Engagement Practices in Mobile Trading: The Impact of Color and Swiping to Trade on Investor Decisions

Forthcoming in Management Science

43 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023

Stephanie M. Grant

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Jessen L. Hobson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Roshan K. Sinha

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: October 23, 2023

Abstract

As coined by the SEC, Digital Engagement Practices (DEPs) are visual cues and design features to engage investors on mobile trading platforms. With the rise of mobile stock trading, regulators and other capital market participants are concerned that these DEPs may cause retail investors to trade in ways they otherwise would not. Using an experiment, we examine the impact of two common DEPs in mobile trading platforms—color (i.e., the use of green or red to indicate performance) and allowing investors to swipe versus click and confirm to execute trades. Drawing from prior research, we predict that the color associated with firm information will interact with how investors execute their trades to affect investment decisions. Consistent with expectations, results show that investors make the largest investment in a firm when they swipe to trade and firm information is colored green, relative to when they click and confirm to trade or firm information is colored red, holding firm economics constant. Swiping to trade causes investors to focus relatively more on the upside of investing, but only when firm information is colored green and not when it is colored red. The color red leads to a muted effect of swiping to trade as investors experience more negative affect and focus relatively more on the downside of investing. Our study answers calls from regulators and academics to examine the effects of technology on information evaluation in investment decisions, and has important practical implications for investors.

Keywords: mobile devices, color, swipe to trade, trading method, investment decisions

JEL Classification: G11, G40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Grant, Stephanie M. and Hobson, Jessen L. and Sinha, Roshan, Digital Engagement Practices in Mobile Trading: The Impact of Color and Swiping to Trade on Investor Decisions (October 23, 2023). Forthcoming in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4613312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Archer
Testosterone and human aggression: an evaluation of the challenge hypothesis
Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 319 - 345 Posted: 2006
W J Bazley , H Conqvist , M Mormann
Visual finance: The pervasive effects of red on investor behavior
Mgmt Sci , volume 67 , issue 9 , p. 5616 - 5641 Posted: 2021
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
J. Accounting Econom , volume 70 , issue 2-3 , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2020
Stock-market gamification unlikely to end rules Posted: 2021-02-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
RANK
244,478
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies