Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Form and Earnings Management

48 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2023

Hajar El Mouttaqui

American University of Sharjah

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Feras Salama

American University of Sharjah

Abstract

We examine how organizational form affects earnings management. We find that diversified firms exhibit a lower degree of earnings management than comparable portfolios of single-segment firms and that the magnitude of reduction in earnings management increases with higher levels of diversification. In addition, we shed light on how diversification decreases earnings management. Using path analysis, we find evidence that diversification decreases earnings management by reducing both earnings volatility and the need for external financing and by increasing the propensity to pay dividends. Our results are robust to using different measures of diversification and earnings management and continue to hold when we attempt to account for endogeneity using two different methods: the Heckman two-stage model and propensity score matching.

Keywords: earnings management, Organizational Form, internal capital markets.

Suggested Citation:

El Mouttaqui, Hajar and Gleason, Kimberly C. and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Salama, Feras, Organizational Form and Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4613702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4613702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A Abadie , G Imbens
Simple and bias-corrected matching estimators for average treatment effects Posted: 2002
S Ahn , D J Denis , D K Denis
Leverage and investment in diversified firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 337 Posted: 2006
V A Aivazian , J Qiu , M M Rahaman
Bank loan contracting and corporate diversification: Does organizational structure matter to lenders?
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 252 - 282 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
RANK
856,579
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies