Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Decade after CSR Became Mandatory: An Empirical Study on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Philanthropical Behavior of the Indian Companies

19 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2023

DC Nanjunda Devajana

University of Mysore -INDIA

Date Written: October 27, 2023

Abstract

The Indian Government implemented the CSR Act in 2013 as a mandatory requirement for Indian companies to spend a small portion of their profits on social causes, and it has been almost a decade. Corporate social responsibility is an undeniable tool for increased corporate accountability, profitability, and societal sustainability. Although various Indian corporations are involved in CSR activities, it is not enough in contrast to their actual financial strength. In a conscience-focused marketplace, the demand for extra-moral business functions and events has been changing since COVID-19. The present study has been conducted with Indian-based Nifty and non-Nifty companies to find out corporate social responsibility and philanthropic behaviour after 10 years of the CSR Act-2013 and data was collected from 46 Nifty and 36 non-Nifty companies for the study. The study found that socially responsible behaviour by industry is a dilemma today, especially after COVID-19, and a significant difference of opinion is found between nifty and non-nifty companies between CSR and philanthropy. Also, it is found that companies are losing faith in the NGOs to implement CSR work in India because of genuinity. Companies also opined that more transparency is required in CSR reporting. It is concluded that companies must spend more for the social cause than the legal ceiling limit if they have a good profit for the social cause.

Keywords: CSR, Philanthropy, Companies, Nifty-Non nifty, Development

Suggested Citation:

Devajana, DC Nanjunda, A Decade after CSR Became Mandatory: An Empirical Study on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Philanthropical Behavior of the Indian Companies (October 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4614895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4614895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Apaydin , G F Jiang , M Demirbag , D Jamali
The importance of corporate social responsibility strategic fit and times of economic hardship
British Journal of Management , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 399 - 415 Posted: 2021
G S Dhanesh
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) in India: A dialectical analysis of the communicative construction of the meanings and boundaries of CSR in India
Public Relations , volume 4 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
V Elembilassery , L Gurunathan
Mandated CSR and mode of implementation: The Indian context
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 701 - 718 Posted: 2018
T Frederiksen
Corporate social responsibility, risk and development in the mining industry
Resources Policy Inquiry , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 287 - 303 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
635,835
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies