Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Financing and Operational Efficiency of Companies listed at Nairobi Stock Exchange, Kenya

10 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2023

Joseph Kimathi James

Chuka University

Patricia Gachambi Mwangi

Chuka University

Henry Kimathi Mukaria

Chuka University

Date Written: October 25, 2023

Abstract

Background: As companies evolve, they confront a myriad of challenges, opportunities, and risks, demanding a laser focus on financial strategies. Within this landscape, the intertwined concepts of debt financing and operational efficiency emerge as critical determinants of a firm's performance and longevity. Debt financing sources presents an intricate landscape in which companies make their financial decisions. However, the existing literature often treats debt financing as a homogenous entity, lacking the granularity required to discern how the specific composition of debt, including the reliance on trade credit versus traditional short-term and long-term bank borrowings, might influence operational efficiency. Thus, this study aimed at identifying the effect of debt financing composition on operational efficiency of companies listed in NSE.
Methods: The research focused on examining the link between debt financing structures and operational efficiency in 50 firms listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE). The study collected panel data ranging between 2015 and 2022. A positivist research philosophy was employed, utilizing quantitative analysis techniques, specifically descriptive statistical analysis and random effects regression model.
Findings: The regression results of the random effects model reveal the relationship between debt financing constructs and operational efficiency. The overall R-squared value for the model is 0.176, suggesting that around 17.6% of the variation in operational efficiency can be explained by the debt financing sub-variables. Furthermore, the model’s goodness of fit is assessed through the Wald chi-square test (χ² =72.61, p = 0.000), confirming its statistical significance. The coefficient for the independent variables trade credit, short-term borrowings, and long-term borrowings are (β = 0.331, p = 0.002), (β = 0.642, p = 0.001), and (β = 0.349, p = 0.001), respectively. The p-values are less than 0.05, indicating that the effects of trade credit, short-term borrowings, and long-term borrowings on the operational efficiency of firms listed at the NSE are statistically significant at the 5% level.
Conclusion and Implications: The study concludes that debt financing comprising of trade credit, short-term borrowing and long-term borrowing have beneficial effects on operational efficiency. While all three sub-variables of debt financing contribute to enhanced operational efficiency, their application in corporate financing practices varies, with long-term borrowing being a common choice for funding total assets. In light of these findings, company managers should recognize debt financing as a strategic tool for improving operational efficiency. This recognition should be accompanied by a careful and thoughtful approach to utilizing the three components of debt: trade credit, short-term borrowing, and long-term borrowing.

Keywords: Debt financing; debt financing composition; trade credit; short-term borrowing; long-term borrowing; operational efficiency.

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

James, Joseph Kimathi and Mwangi, Patricia Gachambi and Mukaria, Henry Kimathi, Debt Financing and Operational Efficiency of Companies listed at Nairobi Stock Exchange, Kenya (October 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4614214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4614214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M A Azad , P Wanke , M Z Raihan , S R Anwar , R Mustafa
Bank efficiency in Bangladesh revisited: A slack-based network DEA approach
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1001 - 1014 Posted: 2020
E S Alzoubi
Audit quality, debt financing, and earnings management: Evidence from Jordan
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 30 , p. 69 - 84 Posted: 2018
S Chadha , A K Sharma
Capital structure and firm performance: Empirical evidence from India. Vision
The Journal of Business Perspective , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 295 - 302 Posted: 2015
E C Nwude , I O Itiri , B O Agbadua , S N Udeh
The impact of debt structure on firm performance: Empirical evidence from Nigerian quoted firms
Asian Economic and Financial Review , volume 6 , issue 11 , p. 647 - 660 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
527
RANK
576,053
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies