Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Green Accounting on Firm Profitability: A Comparative Study on Materials and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Sector Companies in Colombo Stock Exchange

46 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023

Meshani Nisansala Liyanage Neluwe Dasili Liyanage

University of Sri Jayewardenepura - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 12, 2023

Abstract

In recent year, the growing recognition that sustainable practices and environmental responsibility are essential for the long-term success of businesses. There is a growing demand from consumers, investors, and regulators for businesses to measure and report their environmental impact, reduce their carbon footprint, and demonstrate their commitment to sustainability so green accounting provides businesses with a framework for measuring and reporting on their environmental impact and for incorporating the environmental and social costs and benefits of their activities into decision-making processes. As research on green sectors under the Sri Lankan context is very limited, so there is a timely need to investigate the impact of green practices on the financial performance of a business. Therefore, this research study investigates the impact of green accounting on firm financial performance of materials and food, beverage, & tobacco sector companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Environmental accounting refers to the process of incorporating environmental costs and benefits into financial accounting and reporting. It is a tool used by organizations to measure and report the impact of their operations on the environment, as well as to track the cost of environmental damage caused by their activities. While environmental accounting systems now form part of industrial decision making in first world countries, there is a lack of similar systems in South Asia. Green accounting has a close relationship with sustainable development goals (SDGs). Green accounting can help to align economic incentives with the SDGs by incorporating the environmental and social costs and benefits of economic activities into decision-making processes. This can help to promote more sustainable practices and reduce the negative environmental and social impact of economic activities. The study utilized a quantitative research design and gathered data from the annual reports of 40 companies, covering the time period between 2019 and 2022. An indexing procedure was used to evaluate the content of the disclosures, selecting 56 items to be included in the disclosure index. The collected data were then analyzed using multiple regression models. The key findings of the study shows that there is a significant relationship between Green Accounting and ROA of food, beverage & tobacco sector.

Keywords: Colombo Stock Exchange, Content Analysis, Firms' profitability, Green Accounting

JEL Classification: Q,L

Suggested Citation:

Neluwe Dasili Liyanage, Meshani Nisansala Liyanage, The Impact of Green Accounting on Firm Profitability: A Comparative Study on Materials and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Sector Companies in Colombo Stock Exchange (March 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4615844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4615844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
CHAPTER , volume 6
T Akther
Corporate Environmental Reporting and Profitability: A Study on Listed Companies in Bangladesh
Jagannath University Journal of Business Studies , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 104 Posted: 2017
E B Bassey , S O Effiok , O E Eton
The impact of environmental accounting and reporting on organizational performance of selected oil and gas companies in the Niger Delta Region of Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 57 - 73 Posted: 2013
Che-Ahmad , A Osazuwa , N P Mgbame , C O
Environmental accounting and firm profitability in Nigeria: Do firm-specific effects matter?
IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,496
RANK
42,583
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies