Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Equity Underwriters in Shaping Corporate Disclosure

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming. 

57 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023

Mei Cheng

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Yuan Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas

Meiling Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: October 23, 2023

Abstract

We find that the exogenous shock of the collapse of Lehman Brothers leads to significant increases in the disclosure of management earnings forecasts and voluntary 8-K items by equity underwriting clients of Lehman relative to clients of other underwriters of similar status. The increases in disclosure are more pronounced among Lehman clients with stronger underwriting relationships with Lehman or those that experienced more negative stock returns at the time of the collapse. Additional analyses reveal that while Lehman clients experienced reductions in liquidity compared to non-Lehman clients after the collapse, this reduction is significantly attenuated among Lehman clients that increased the volume of their voluntary disclosures. Finally, we expand the sample to a larger set of underwriters and document that equity underwriter reputation changes are negatively associated with subsequent client disclosures, consistent with a substitution effect between client firms’ voluntary disclosures and the information roles played by high-quality underwriters. Overall, our results underscore the importance of the informational role of firms’ equity underwriters beyond the IPO period.

Keywords: corporate disclosure, equity undewriter, liquidity, Lehman Brothers

JEL Classification: M41, D82, G2

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Mei and Zhang, Yuan and Zhao, Meiling, The Role of Equity Underwriters in Shaping Corporate Disclosure (October 23, 2023).

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming. 

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4615218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4615218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
R Aggarwal
Stabilization Activities by Underwriters after IPOs
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 1075 - 1103 Posted: 2000
R K Aggarwal , L Krigman , K L Womack ; Agarwal , V , K A Mullally , Y Tang , B Yang
Strategic IPO underpricing, information momentum, and lockup expiration selling
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2002
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
865
RANK
413,842
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies