Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit committee features and earnings management

Heliyon, e20825. DOI:10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e20825.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

14 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2023 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Farzaneh Nassir Zadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Ali Shirzad

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Mahdi Faghani

University Of Sistan and Baluchestan

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Purpose: Past studies have investigated the relationship between audit committee features and
earnings management and reported mixed and inconclusive results. Some studies have found a
significant relationship, while others have not. This study aims to explain these mixed results in
the literature by dividing earning management into two groups: accrual and real earnings management (at three levels of sales, general and administrative costs, production costs and cash
flows operation) and re-examining the relationship.

Design/methodology/approach: The statistical model used in this study is a multivariate regression
model; further, the statistical technique used to test the hypotheses is panel data.

Findings: The findings show that both the audit committee members’ financial expertise and the
audit committee’s size affect the accrual earnings management. However, the results show no
meaningful relationship between the audit committee features and real-based earnings management at any levels of sales, general and administrative costs, production costs and cash flow operation. In addition, the findings suggest no meaningful relationship between the independence of the audit committee’s members and accrual earnings management. In other words, not separating the earning management into ‘accrual’ and ‘real’ could be the critical factor for the reported mixed and inconsistent results in the literature.

Practical implications: The findings of the current study provide an important guideline for investors and stakeholders to separate ‘accrual’ from ‘real’ earning management and pay more
attention to the importance of audit committee features to limit the opportunities of earnings
management. Indeed, by understanding the relationship between audit committee features and
earnings management, investors and stockholders can make appropriate decisions regarding the
optimal choice of funds.

Originality/value: Dividing the earning management into two groups (accrual versus real) and re-examining its relationship with the audit committee features is new in this paper. Identifying one
of the possible reasons for the past mixed and inconsistent results in the literature is also an
incremental contribution provided by this study. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e20825

Keywords: Audit committee features, Audit committee size, Audit committee expertise, Audit Committee’s independence, Earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Nassir Zadeh, Farzaneh and Askarany, Davood and Shirzad, Ali and Faghani, Mahdi, Audit committee features and earnings management ( 2023). Heliyon, e20825. DOI:10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e20825., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4616817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Z Inaam , H Khamoussi
Audit committee effectiveness, audit quality and earnings management: a meta-analysis
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 58 , p. 179 - 196 Posted: 2016
M S M Al-Absy , K N I K Ismail , S Chandren
Accounting expertise in the audit committee and earnings management
Bus. Econ. Horiz , volume 14 , p. 451 - 476 Posted: 2018
M S M Al-Absy , K N I Ku Ismail , S Chandren
Audit committee chairman characteristics and earnings management: the influence of family chairman
Asia-Pac. J. Bus. Adm , volume 11 , p. 339 - 370 Posted: 2019
M S M Al-Absy
Impactful women directors and earnings management , volume 9 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
925
RANK
441,693
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies