Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise and Fall of the EU Taxonomy: Lessons in the Implementation of Sustainability Accounting and Accountability

38 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2023

Martin-Sebastian Abel

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Garen Markarian

HEC - University of Lausanne

Date Written: October 13, 2023

Abstract

The initial purpose of the EU Taxonomy was to establish a framework that defines environmentally sustainable economic activities within the European Union (EU), designed to address the urgent need for a common language and criteria to identify and classify sustainable investments. Its offspring, the EU-CSRD and European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), would aim to provide clarity and transparency to investors, businesses, and policymakers regarding the environmental performance of economic activities. Lofty goals notwithstanding, the daunting task to catalogize all business activity in terms of its environmental and social footprint, has been branded as a failure. The regulatory capture by business groups and member state interests has led to a dilution of initial targets, that it no more satisfies the requirements on which the EU Taxonomy was originally based. The way forward is unclear and entails further time-wasting, or delegating pressing environmental needs to private standard setting bodies. Initiatives led by the ISSB through the IFRS foundation, SASB and the TCFD, to develop globally recognized sustainability reporting standards, provide for a viable and more effective, alternative regime.

Suggested Citation:

Abel, Martin-Sebastian and Markarian, Garen, The Rise and Fall of the EU Taxonomy: Lessons in the Implementation of Sustainability Accounting and Accountability (October 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4618108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4618108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
P Berrutti
We need to talk about Net Zero bullsh*t. Responsible Investor Posted: 2021-08-02
R M Bushman , W R Landsman
The pros and cons of regulating corporate reporting: A critical review of the arguments
Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , issue 3 Posted: 2010-11-23
T Bizoumi , S Lazaridis , N Stamou
Innovation in Stock Exchanges: Driving ESG Disclosure and Performance
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 72 - 79 Posted: 2019-08-23
R Boffo , R Patalano
ESG Investing: Practices, Progress and Challenges Posted: 2020-08-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,550
RANK
133,528
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies