Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Christianity and Measures of Audit Committee and Board Effectiveness

51 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2023

Dana R. Hermanson

Kennesaw State University - Department of Accounting

Mengtian Li

The University of North Carolina at Greensboro

Zhongxia (Shelly) Ye

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relation of Christianity with measures of audit committee and board effectiveness. We find that Christian faith intensity in firms’ headquarters locations is positively related to audit committee size and financial expertise, and board independence. The audit committee results are driven by Protestant traditions, while both Catholic and Protestant traditions are positively associated with board independence. Further, the relation between Christian faith intensity and effective corporate governance is driven by lower financial reporting quality firms (for audit committee size and financial expertise) and lower R&D firms (for board independence), settings with a greater need for strong governance. In supplemental analyses, we find evidence that Christian faith intensity is related to other measures of audit committee and board effectiveness. We also find that female involvement in governance and Christianity are negatively related, but only in the first half of the sample period. We discuss implications and future research.

Keywords: Christian faith, audit committee, board of directors, size, financial expertise, independence

Suggested Citation:

Hermanson, Dana R. and Li, Mengtian and Ye, Zhongxia (Shelly), Christianity and Measures of Audit Committee and Board Effectiveness (October 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4618059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4618059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
A J Ali , R C Camp , M Gibbs
The concept of 'free agency' in monotheistic religions: Implications for global business
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 112 Posted: 2005
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
709
RANK
538,134
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies