Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance and Geographic Location: New Evidence

51 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2023

Benjamin Segal

Fordham University; Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Joseph Micale

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Ibrahim Siraj

Long Island University

Maya Waisman

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

We revisit the relationship between financial reporting and firm value through the lens of geographic location, which directly impacts investors access to private information. We investigate the effect of firms’ geographic locations vis-à-vis large concentrations of potential investors on the association between earnings and stock prices, finding that rural firms’ value relevance of earnings is significantly stronger than that of firms headquartered in central, large cities. We find that this phenomenon is driven by investors’ higher reliance on publicly available earnings for remote, rural firms versus their reliance on local, private information for urban companies. We support this explanation with two distinct exogenous shocks to investor information: industry shocks to institutional investor portfolios and analyst coverage losses from brokerage house mergers. Furthermore, we find evidence of private information leakage for urban firms prior to earnings announcements, but not for rural companies. Taken together, our results show that firm location has a significant effect on the importance and use of corporate reporting, with implications for users, preparers and policy makers.

Keywords: Geographic Location, Value Relevance, Earnings, Market Pricing

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Segal, Benjamin and Micale, Joseph and Siraj, Ibrahim and Waisman, Maya, Value Relevance and Geographic Location: New Evidence (October 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4619149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4619149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 45 Posted: 1998
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (Possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and Shareholder Activism: Exit as a Form of Voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
576,053
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies