Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To What Extent Does Corporate Governance Influence Financial Performance of Banks in Nigeria?

Ogbeide, Frank I., Azuikpe, Farida, Adeboje, Oluwafemi M. & Yakubu, Dahiru M. (2022). “To What Extent Does Corporate Governance Influence Financial Performance of Banks in Nigeria?”, NDIC Quarterly, 37(3&4):80-103.

Posted: 8 Nov 2023

Oluwafemi M. Adeboje

Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) - Research, Policy & Int’l Relations Department

Date Written: Dcember 31, 2022

Abstract

This study examined the link between bank performance and a vector of corporate governance,
macroeconomic and institutional quality indicators, using data of 15 banks listed on the stock exchange from 2010 to 2019. Static panel data regression model was estimated, with Return on Asset (ROA) employed as a proxy for bank performance. Estimated results show that, bank age and bank performance are negatively related, while board size had a negative but insignificant effect on ROA. The coefficient of board composition was significant and positively signed while the coefficient of non-performing loan expectedly had an adversely significant effect on its performance. Other results showed the expected significance of macroeconomic and sociopolitical influence on bank performance. Specifically, misery index, a measure of macroeconomic instability had a negative influence on bank performance, while per capita GDP exert a positive effect on bank return on asset. Regulatory quality, a measure of governance, had a positive impact on bank performance while polity, a measure of likelihood of political instability, was found to have a negative and significant effect on bank performance, suggesting the destabilizing effects of political instability on bank performance. This study provides important policy recommendation on the need to enhance corporate governance, effective macroeconomic strategy adoption within a sound politico institutional setting to improve the trajectory of overall bank performance in Nigeria.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Bank Performance, Panel Data Analysis, Misery Index, Nigeria.

JEL Classification: G21, G34, O16

Suggested Citation:

Adeboje, Oluwafemi M., To What Extent Does Corporate Governance Influence Financial Performance of Banks in Nigeria? (Dcember 31, 2022). Ogbeide, Frank I., Azuikpe, Farida, Adeboje, Oluwafemi M. & Yakubu, Dahiru M. (2022). “To What Extent Does Corporate Governance Influence Financial Performance of Banks in Nigeria?”, NDIC Quarterly, 37(3&4):80-103., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4619057
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
278
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies