Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Risk Exposure Distorts Investment Decisions

37 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Jeffrey L. Coles

University of Utah - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jason Sandvik

Eller College of Management, University of Arizona

Nathan Seegert

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

This paper evaluates the distortionary effects of personal taxes, managerial compensation incentives, and their interaction on corporate investment policy. The model shows that these factors affect the exposure of the CEO to risk, thereby considerably altering the managerial incentive to engage in mergers and acquisitions. Asymmetry in the personal tax rates on dividends versus capital gains on its own can provide incentives to undertake low-synergy acquisitions that would not be pursued otherwise. The extent of this investment distortion from tax asymmetry, however, materially depends on the CEO’s accumulated ownership, the convexity of the CEO compensation scheme, and monitoring by the board of directors.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Business Taxation

JEL Classification: G34, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Coles, Jeffrey L. and Sandvik, Jason and Seegert, Nathan, CEO Risk Exposure Distorts Investment Decisions (October 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4619207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4619207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob , Roni Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
Yakov Amihud , Baruch Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Alan J Auerbach
Wealth maximiation and the cost of capital
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 433 - 436 Posted: 1979
Alan J Auerbach
Taxation and corporate financial policy
Handbook of Public Economics , volume 3 , p. 1251 - 1292 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
584,078
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies