Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership and CEO Pay Duration

49 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2023

Douglas O. Cook

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Xudong Fu

University of Louisville

Tian Tang

University of Louisville

Abstract

We examine how common ownership affects managerial compensation horizons and find that common ownership is positively associated with CEO pay duration. Moreover, we find that the positive relationship between common ownership and pay duration strengthens with higher liquidity, greater information asymmetry, and by being located in states with stronger non-compete agreement enforceability. Long-duration pay associated with common ownership reduces managerial myopia effectively as it improves firm long-term performance and reduces stock price crash risk. We address endogeneity concerns with a difference-in-differences analysis using financial mergers as an exogenous shock and then perform a propensity score analysis with the same merger data and find that our results are robust to these concerns.

Keywords: Common Ownership, Pay Duration, Corporate Governance, Managerial Myopia

Suggested Citation:

Cook, Douglas O. and Fu, Xudong and Tang, Tian, Common Ownership and CEO Pay Duration. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4620487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4620487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M C Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives Posted: 2018
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
718,946
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies