Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Governance Help to Reduce Carbon Emissions? Some Empirical Evidence

34 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2023

Cecile Cezanne

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gaye Del Lo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yves Kassi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sandra Rigot

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Climate change is the biggest challenge that humanity is currently facing. Companies have become increasingly aware of the need to address this issue. They are affected by climate risks, just as their activities can contribute to climate change. In this paper, we analyze the role of firms in mitigating climate change through their model of corporate governance. We examine the impact of key organizational control and incentive arrangements (board size, board independence, board gender diversity, sustainability committee, and sustainability-based executive compensation) on firms' carbon emission intensities. Using a fixed effects model on a panel of 305 firms over the period 2015-2021, we show the importance of corporate governance for reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions and reveal its limitations in efforts to reduce Scope 3 emissions. Board gender diversity, the presence of a sustainability committee, and the existence of sustainability compensation incentives help to reduce corporate carbon emissions. Our results also show that the effects are sensitive to the stock market index and to the type of industry. Based on these results, several managerial and political implications can be drawn to improve corporate carbon performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, board independence, gender diversity, sustainability committee, sustainability-linked executive compensation, GHG emissions, Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3.

Suggested Citation:

Cezanne, Cecile and Del Lo, Gaye and Kassi, Yves and Rigot, Sandra, Does Corporate Governance Help to Reduce Carbon Emissions? Some Empirical Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4621463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4621463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
P Agnolucci , T Arvanitopoulos
Industrial characteristics and air emissions: Longterm determinants in the UK manufacturing sector
Energy Economics , volume 78 , p. 546 - 566 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Corporate Governance and Firm Performance Posted: 2012-03-15
M S Alam , M Atif , C Chien-Chi , U Soytaş
Does corporate R&D investment affect firm environmental performance? Evidence from G-6 countries
Energy Economics , volume 78 , p. 401 - 411 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
883
RANK
319,999
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies