Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Borrower-Lender Cross-Ownership and Borrower Audit Quality

44 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Stuart Dearden

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Jimmy Downes

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Date Written: November 3, 2023

Abstract

We study the effect of borrower-lender cross-ownership on the demand for a borrower’s external audit quality in syndicated loan settings. Cross-owners, which are institutional investors who hold the equities of both the borrower and the lead lender of syndicated loans, have the ability and incentive to increase the economic benefits accruing to both contracting parties. We hypothesize that cross-owners demand high-quality audits of the borrower’s financial information as a delegated monitoring device to resolve the agency cost of debt and improve contract efficiency. Our evidence shows that cross-ownership is positively associated with higher borrower audit fees, our proxy for audit quality. We also find that the effect is more pronounced for larger loans. Overall, these results suggest that cross-owners view external audits to be a viable monitoring mechanism for improving overall debt contacting efficiency.

Keywords: Cross-Ownership, Audit Quality, Audit Fees, Syndicated Debt

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dearden, Stuart and Downes, Jimmy and Kang, Tony, Borrower-Lender Cross-Ownership and Borrower Audit Quality (November 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4622548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4622548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristic, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2018
M Antón , C Polk
Connected Stocks
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 1099 - 1127 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
RANK
640,233
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies