Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance Validation from Listed Indian Companies

The Indian Journal of Commerce, 75(2&3), 56-72

17 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Prof. Shikha Shikha

Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, University of Delhi

Tanvi Bagadia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Purpose: In the wake of increasing importance being accorded to the notion that corporates should assume socially responsible behaviour, the paper seeks to investigate whether such behaviour results in improved financial performance.
Methodology: The sample consists of 63 Indian companies listed on NSE 100 ESG Index for the period 2017-18 and 2018-19. ESG score is used as a measure of corporate social responsibility performance of a firm. The financial performance is evaluated by using both accounting-based measures (return on assets and return on capital employed) as well as market-based measure (Tobin Q). Since size, as well as the age of a firm can confound the relationship between CSR and financial performance, the study incorporates them as control variables. A cross-sectional data model was developed and linear regression analysis was used to test the influence of corporate social responsibility on financial performance.
Findings: The study found a significant positive relationship between corporate social responsibility performance of a firm and its financial performance both in terms of firm profitability (as calculated by accounting-based measures) as well as market value (as calculated by market-based measure). Also, it was found that the size of the company is positively and significantly correlated with CSR and all three measures of financial profitability, but, surprisingly no significant association was found between age and other variables.
Implications: The study has strong implications for companies to integrate sustainable practices as their core business strategy as it would result in superior financial performance from competitive advantages, customer satisfaction and brand image, lower financing costs, employee retention, etc. It also has practical implications for investors, regulators, practitioners and academicians depending on the purpose.
Originality/value: The study contributes immensely to existing research as it incorporates both measures of performance assessment and hence is more comprehensive as compared to earlier studies which have mostly used accounting measures. Further, there is a time lag after which corporate social responsibility practices translate into financial returns. The study incorporates this time lag and thus eliminates the inconsistencies of earlier studies.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial performance, NSE 100 ESG Index, ESG scores, Cross-sectional data model.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Shikha and Bagadia, Tanvi, Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance Validation from Listed Indian Companies ( 2022). The Indian Journal of Commerce, 75(2&3), 56-72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4623446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Y B Adeneye , M Ahmed
Corporate social responsibility and company performance
Journal of Business Studies Quarterly , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
M L Andersen , J S Dejoy
Corporate social and financial performance: the role of size, industry, risk, R&D and advertising expenses as control variables , volume 116 , p. 237 - 256 Posted: 2011
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity theory and the organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
360,957
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies