Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting in case of Oil and Gas industry: An Empirical Analysis in the context of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, 2016

The Chartered Accountant, 71(2), 53-64

12 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Prof. Shikha Shikha

Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, University of Delhi

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Reporting and disclosure are one of the important ways for businesses to account for the impact of their operations on the economic, social, and physical environment. Businesses depend on stakeholders for the supply of inputs such as capital, labour, raw materials, etc., and are, therefore, required to practice and communicate the benefits which they have created for these stakeholders. The present study attempts to analyse the sustainability reporting practices as per GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, 2016 of the oil and gas industry which is one of the most closely scrutinized industries given its nature and strategic importance in the economy. Through content analysis of the reports and descriptive statistics, both parameter-wise and companywise,
it was found that the industry is quite aware of the economic, environmental, and social impacts of its operations and has largely communicated these impacts, although the narrative and depth differ from year to year and company to company. Few parameters which demand attention include - reporting on tax strategy; supplier environmental assessment; impact on biodiversity and a few indicators of labour management relations including diversity and equal opportunity. These were either not reported or reported in a passive, vague and self-laudatory manner. ONGC Ltd. and Gail (India) Ltd were the top companies following the GRI guidelines. They consistently and proactively
report the suggested parameters over the study period. At the bottom was Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. The study provides an in-depth sectoral analysis of sustainability reporting and can be
utilised for other sectors as well.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting; GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, 2016; content analysis; oil and gas sector.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Shikha, Sustainability Reporting in case of Oil and Gas industry: An Empirical Analysis in the context of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, 2016 ( 2022). The Chartered Accountant, 71(2), 53-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4623496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
M L Andersen , J S Dejoy
Corporate social and financial performance: the role of size, industry, risk, R&D, and advertising expenses as control variables , volume 116 , p. 237 - 256 Posted: 2011
J Bebbington , R Gray
An account of sustainability: failure, success and a reconceptualization
Critical perspectives on accounting , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 557 - 587 Posted: 2001
K Bewley , Y Li
Disclosure of Environmental Information by Canadian Manufacturing Companies: A Voluntary Disclosure Perspective
Advances in Environmental Accounting & Management , p. 201 - 226 Posted: 2000
G H Brundtland , S Cyriac
Corporate sustainability reporting practices: a comparative study of practices by Indian and European companies
The Macrotheme Review , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 38 - 46 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
390,788
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Investment & Social Responsibility eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies