Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Disclosure: A Bibliometric Analysis and Future Research Agenda

JIMS8M-The Journal of Indian Management & Strategy, 28(2), 4-13

10 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Prof. Shikha Shikha

Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, University of Delhi

Rajni Tuteja

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Purpose: There are many factors that contribute to the extent and quality of disclosures by a company. Among them, the influence of corporate governance structures has received considerable attention in recent years. To synthesize prior research on corporate governance and disclosure, the present paper attempts a bibliometric analysis of the research domain.
Design/methodology/approach: Bibliometric softwares VOS viewer and Biblioshiny were used along with a literature review of key studies for the analysis of data extracted from the Scopus database and filtered by application of inclusion-exclusion criteria.
Findings: Most productive and influential articles, authors, journals, and affiliations were recognized. USA was found to be the most productive and influential country followed by UK and Australia. Thematic mapping and trend analysis revealed past and present research subdomains which were used for the prediction of future research agenda.
Originality/value: The present study is one of the few bibliometric studies in the domain of corporate governance and reporting and offers strong implications for researchers, corporates, regulators, and investors to take up measures for the improvement of governance attributes.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Disclosure, Bibliometric Analysis, VoS viewer, Biblioshiny, Scopus.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Shikha and Tuteja, Rajni, Corporate Governance and Disclosure: A Bibliometric Analysis and Future Research Agenda ( 2023). JIMS8M-The Journal of Indian Management & Strategy, 28(2), 4-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4623509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S N Abdullah , K N I K Ismail , L
Does having women on boards create value? The impact of societal perceptions and corporate governance in emerging markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 466 - 476 Posted: 2015
C A Adams
Internal Organisational Factors Influencing Corporate Social and Ethical Reporting: Beyond Current Theorising
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
V Alagarsamy
A bibliometric analysis of Journal of Advances in Library and Information Science (JALIS) from 2016-2020: an international online journal
Library Philosophy and Practice , volume 5128 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2021
A Ali , T Y Chen , S
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies