Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey on Banking Fraud in Chitwan, Nepal: Banking Customers’ Perspective

13 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2023 Last revised: 30 Nov 2023

Er. Sujit Kumar Libi

Boston International College

Post Raj Pokharel

Harvard Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd.; Kathmandu University School of Management; Boston International College

Date Written: November 5, 2023

Abstract

This study makes an attempt to answer the basic question 'does the information of banking fraud matter?" with a special brief overview of the customer experience without going into detail about the root causes, reasons for action, or specific incidents of banking fraud. The main objective of this paper is to describe banking customers' perspectives towards recent fraudulent cases of banking fraud, national policy & regulation, and the cause & factor of banking fraud. A well-structured questionnaire was used to collect data from 259 samples out of which 42 responses were collected. Data were analyzed using descriptive methods. This study found that correlation between banking fraud and other variables such as: customer awareness, technology, policy & regulation, fraudulent intention, and financial and non-financial pressure. The responses of banking customers have highlighted the importance of enhancing customer awareness, strengthened technological measures, and implementing effective policies and regulations to combat fraud within the banking sector. It concluded that, as the banking industry continues to evolve and adapt to new challenges, this study serves as a valuable resource for understanding the dynamics of banking fraud.

Keywords: Survey Study, Banking Fraud, Customer Perspective, ConnectIPS, Chitwan, Nepal

Suggested Citation:

Libi, Er. Sujit Kumar and Pokharel, Post Raj, A Survey on Banking Fraud in Chitwan, Nepal: Banking Customers’ Perspective (November 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4623878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4623878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P Acharya
E-Banking system in Nepal and electronic banking risk management Posted: 2021
S Acharya
Legal Measures of Banking Offence and Punishment System; A Reference of Nepal
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2020
O E Akinbowale , H E Klingelhöfer , M F Zerihun
Analysis of cyber-crime effects on the banking sector using the balanced score card: a survey of literature
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 945 - 958 Posted: 2020
F F Akinwale , I O Ailemen , I Areghan
Electronic fraud: an emerging cause of bank failure in Nigerian deposit money banks
Journal of Money Laundering Control Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
253,593
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies