Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputation Harm and Corporate Financial Policies

42 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2023

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Arnt Verriest

KU Leuven

Abstract

We examine the effect of reputation loss on corporate financial management policies. We operationalize reputation loss by considering negative media coverage in local, national, and international press on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) dimensions. Harmful news damages firm reputation, and therefore increases the overall riskiness of the firm, including its financial and operational risk. Hence, we conjecture that this increased perception of firm risk leads managers to respond by buffering precautionary cash savings, lowering their financial leverage, and substituting long for short term debt. Results show that an increase in negative press coverage for large US corporations increases cash holdings in the subsequent quarter by 4.12%, or $65 million on average. We also document larger cash increases for firms with higher interdependencies of investment opportunities with rival firms and for financially constrained firms, comporting with the notion that such firms experience higher expected utility from increased cash buffers when facing reputational harm. Further, although we do not find clear effects on financial leverage, negative media coverage does induce firms to substitute long-term debt for short-term debt, suggesting that firms entering in the eye of a reputation storm may prefer betting on the real option to refinance at future lower long-term rates, i.e., ‘when the dust has settled’.

Keywords: Negative media exposure, Financial policies, Cash holdings, Leverage, Reputation loss

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Verriest, Arnt, Reputation Harm and Corporate Financial Policies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4623322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4623322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
W Andreassen
Satisfaction, Loyalty and Reputation as Indicators of Customer Orientation in the Public Sector
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 16 - 34 Posted: 1994
M Arouri , G Pijourlet , G
CSR Performance and the Value of Cash Holdings: International Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 140 , p. 263 - 284 Posted: 2017
M Arena , B Julio
The Effects of Securities Class Action Litigation on Corporate Liquidity and Investment Policy
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue 1/2 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2015
B S Bernanke
Irreversibility, uncertainty, and cyclical investment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 106 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
394,837
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies