Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Standardization as the answer? The Properties of Non-GAAP Earnings in China

57 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 28 Mar 2025

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Mei Luo

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Xinyi Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2020

Abstract

In November 2024, the FASB issued an Invitation-to-Comment (2024-ITC100) on a proposal to standardize non-GAAP financial metrics commonly reported in earnings releases. While predicting the impact of standardization in the United States is difficult, this paper explores the quality of non-GAAP earnings in a regulatory regime that has already standardized non-GAAP earnings. In contrast to the discretionary nature of non-GAAP earnings in the United States, the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC) issues strict guidelines on the type of items excluded from non-GAAP earnings. In contrast to findings in studies on U.S. firms, our results generally indicate that Chinese non-GAAP exclusions are of higher quality and understood by investors. However, we find that Chinese non-GAAP exclusions are lower quality when equity market pressures increase. Our results show that non-state-owned firms, high institutional ownership firms, and high analyst coverage firms in China (firms that mimic U.S. firm characteristics) tend to report lower-quality non-GAAP exclusions. Thus, standardization in the U.S. may have a limited impact on curbing manipulation through non-GAAP earnings and negatively impact the manager’s ability to communicate private information to investors. Our results provide insights into the potential outcomes of standardizing non-GAAP earnings and highlight the distinct properties of non-GAAP earnings that are useful when valuing Chinese firms.  

Keywords: standardization, non-GAAP reporting, disclosure regulation, China

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K22, M40, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Jennings, Jared N. and Luo, Mei and Soliman, Mark T. and Zhang, Xinyi,

Standardization as the answer? The Properties of Non-GAAP Earnings in China

(October 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4624152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
E M Barth , I D Gow , D J Taylor
Why Do Pro Forma and Street Earnings Not Reflect Changes in GAAP? Evidence from SFAS 123R
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 526 - 562 Posted: 2012
J W Bentley , T E Christensen , K H Gee , B C Whipple
Disentangling Managers' and Analysts' Non-GAAP Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen , C R Larson
Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and GAAP Operating Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 285 - 319 Posted: 2003
Load more
1 Citations
Patricia M. Dechow , Wei Ting Loh , Annika Yu Wang
A rating system to evaluate non-GAAP exclusion quality
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 1037 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
667,795
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies