Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation Channel of Corporate Social Responsibility in Emerging Markets: Evidence from the Cost of Equity

26 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2023

Richard Paul Gregory

East Tennessee State University

Date Written: November 6, 2023

Abstract

I examine the effects of ESG policies on the cost of equity for emerging markets controlling for Political Risk and data reliability. I find that firms in emerging market countries with relatively high political risk do not benefit from social and governance ESG activities as they lead to a higher cost of equity. This is presumably due to potential or actual political conflicts with the host government. On the other hand, environmental activities do lower the cost of equity as the measured environmental activities are internal to the firms. For emerging market firms in countries with low political risk, all ESG activities are associated with a lower cost of equity.

Keywords: Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility, ESG

JEL Classification: G39

Suggested Citation:

Gregory, Richard Paul, The Valuation Channel of Corporate Social Responsibility in Emerging Markets: Evidence from the Cost of Equity (November 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4624573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H Ashbaugh , D W Collins , R Lafond
Corporate governance and the cost of equity capital. Working Paper. University of Iowa Posted: 2004
K C W Chen , Z Chen , K C J Wei
Legal protection of investors, corporate governance, and the cost of equity capital
J. Corp. Finance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 273 - 289 Posted: 2009
C S Cheng , D Collins , H H Huang
Shareholder rights, financial disclosure and the cost of equity capital
Rev. Quant. Finan. Acc , volume 27 , p. 175 - 204 Posted: 2006
D Collins , H Huang
Management entrenchment and the cost of equity capital
Journal of Business Research , volume 64 , p. 356 - 362 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
RANK
880,636
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies