Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sector Vulnerability and the Role of Cash Holdings During and after the Covid-19 Crisis: Evidence from Non-Financial Corporates Listed in Asia-Pacific

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper 16/2023

29 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2023

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research

(HKIMR)

Date Written: November 2023

Abstract

This working paper is written by Kelvin Ho (Hong Kong Monetary Authority), Stephen Lam (Hong Kong Monetary Authority) and Andrew Wong (Hong Kong Monetary Authority).

This paper aims to investigate the role of cash holdings and its implications for corporate debt vulnerability in Asia-Pacific (APAC) during and after the Covid-19 pandemic. Based on a large sample of non-financial corporates listed in APAC, our analysis shows that higher cash holdings not only provide corporates with more buffers to mitigate shocks but could also play a critical role in supporting their operation and investment decisions during crisis. Specifically, for the latter role, our estimation results suggest that firms with higher cash holdings in 2020 are found to register relatively better financial performance in terms of higher earnings and capital expenditure growth than other firms in the same industry between 2020 and 2022. Yet, the impact is found to be weaker for highly indebted firms, probably reflecting that these firms may be compelled to put cash holdings to less productive uses (e.g. for debt repayments). Regarding the buffering role of cash holdings, our scenario analysis results further suggest that the additional cash holdings built up by corporates during the pandemic could serve as a useful buffer to mitigate the adverse effects of interest rate and earnings shocks on their debt servicing ability under a stress scenario. That said, with signs of a decline in cash holdings recently, the longer-term resilience of the corporate sector in the region could still be tested if the interest rate environment stays high for a prolonged period.

Suggested Citation:

Institute for Monetary and Financial Research, Hong Kong, Corporate Sector Vulnerability and the Role of Cash Holdings During and after the Covid-19 Crisis: Evidence from Non-Financial Corporates Listed in Asia-Pacific (November 2023). Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper 16/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4624149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Ahrends , W Drobetz , T X Puhan
Cyclicality of growth opportunities and the value of cash holdings
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 37 , p. 74 - 96 Posted: 2018
A W Anthony , D N Danarsari
The effect of cash holding to firm's performance during Covid-19 pandemic
Sustainable Future: Trends, Strategies and Development: Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Managing Digital Industry Posted: 2022-05-24
T W Bates , M K Kathleen , Stulz R
Why do U.S. firms hold so much more cash than they use to
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 1985 - 2021 Posted: 2009
M Campello , J R Graham , C R Harvey
The real effects of financial constraints: Evidence from a financial crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 470 - 487 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
759,678
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies