Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from the Humidifier Disinfectant Scandal in Korea

13 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023

Kyunghyun Kim

Keimyung University; Korea University

Hyun Seung Na

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

As a quasi-natural experiment, we examine the effects of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on firms' stock performance amid a corporate scandal closely linked with environmental and social (ES) issues, the humidifier disinfectant scandal in Korea. We find that firms with higher ES ratings, especially those with higher social ratings, outperform firms with lower ES ratings during the product safety scandal. Our findings reveal that ES performance is influential over a firm’s stock returns when investors pay high attention to CSR, suggesting that firms’ CSR investments mitigate their nonfinancial risk.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental and Social, stock performance, Humidifier Disinfectant Scandal

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Kyunghyun and Na, Hyun Seung, The Value of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from the Humidifier Disinfectant Scandal in Korea. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4624609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash
Rev. Corp. Finance Stud , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
K.-H Bae , S El Ghoul , S Gong , O Guedhami
Does CSR Matter in Times of Crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 Pandemic
J. Corp. Finance , volume 67 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2021
Y Y Choi , H K Lim , S Y Lim , D M Paek
Health damages and lessons of the use of humidifier disinfectants in Korea
J. Environ. Health Sci , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 174 Posted: 2017
W Ding , R Levine , C Lin , W Xie
Corporate Immunity to the COVID-19 Pandemic
J. Finance. Econ , volume 141 , p. 802 - 830 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
RANK
511,510
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies