Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
WHO IS WATCHING YOUR FINANCIALS? A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF AUDIT ENGAGEMENT PARTNERS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANIES

Oil, Gas & Energy Quarterly, 2022, Volume 71 (2), 289-300

12 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Chenyong Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wenye Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xueyun Sun

Indiana University Purdue University Fort Wayne

Date Written: November 2, 2022

Abstract

Audit partners significantly affect their clients’ financial reporting quality, audit outcomes, and even tax behaviors (e.g., Lee, Nagy, and Zimmerman 2019; Bianchi, Falsetta, Minutti-Meza, and Weisbrod 2019; Hao, Pham, and Guo 2021). As a result, prior literature calls for more research on audit partners’ characteristics and companies’ accounting performance (DeFond and Zhang 2014). However, due to the lack of individual auditor’s information, not many studies have explored the topic in the U.S. setting. In January 2017, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) required all the U.S. public accounting firms to disclose their engagement audit partners’ personal information in Form AP after issuing reports for publicly traded clients (PCAOB 2015). This provides an opportunity to obtain more audit partners’ individual characteristics with an archival approach (Downey, Rousseau, and Zehms 2019). In this article, we perform a descriptive study to tabulate the general information of audit engagement partners serving oil and gas companies.
Based on a modified structure of Heinrichs et al. (2019), we offer an overview of audit partners dedicated in oil and gas industry with respect of age, professional experience, educational backgrounds, and gender diversity. With hand-collected data, we find that compared with their colleagues, audit engagement partners for oil and gas companies are more senior (10% above the average age), more experienced in public accounting (holding CPA license for a longer time), and slightly less diversified in terms of gender (2.2% below the average). Almost all the audit partners hold a bachelor’s degree and about 23% of them own a master’s degree. Further analysis shows that 23.41% of the partners graduated from Texas universities, although they work in audit offices all around the country. Gleaning from our data analysis results, some practical inferences are also brought forth to give auditors, accounting educators, and oil and gas companies more insights about the opportunities and challenges they are facing.

Keywords: Audit partners; audit partners’ characteristics

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Chenyong and Tang, Wenye and Sun, Xueyun, WHO IS WATCHING YOUR FINANCIALS? A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF AUDIT ENGAGEMENT PARTNERS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANIES (November 2, 2022). Oil, Gas & Energy Quarterly, 2022, Volume 71 (2), 289-300, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
RANK
475,518
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies