Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sin Stocks and SEC Filing Reviews

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X231215910

Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 14 Feb 2024

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

T. Taylor Joo

New Mexico State University

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether and how SEC regulators adjust their oversight processes when there are conflicting risks, specifically among sin stock firms operating in potentially controversial industries, such as alcohol, gaming, and tobacco. On the one hand, we would expect increased scrutiny from SEC staff if they believe that companies willing to offer these sin-related products and services are more likely to skirt SEC disclosure guidelines. On the other hand, if the SEC staff leverage the additional scrutiny these firms are already subjected to from investors, industry regulators, and auditors, we would expect decreased scrutiny from SEC staff. Consistent with the latter, we observe that the SEC is less likely to issue comments on the annual report of sin stock firms. Among those receiving a comment letter, there are no statistically significant differences in rigor or tone, on average. In additional analyses, we find limited evidence that specific reviewer characteristics are associated with differential treatment for sin stock firms in terms of rigor. Finally, we find that among firms that did not receive a comment letter, sin stock firms are less likely to restate their financial statements in the future. Collectively, we interpret this evidence as the SEC efficiently reducing scrutiny on sin stock firms, relative to non-sin stock firms, during the earlier phases of the review process, with minimal differences in the later phases of the review process.

Keywords: SEC, comment letters, filing review process, sin stocks

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Joo, T. Taylor, Sin Stocks and SEC Filing Reviews (October 1, 2023). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X231215910, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624046
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies