Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Poison Pills Adoption, Real Earnings Management and IPO Failure

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2023

27 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Samir Trabelsi

Brock University - Accounting

Amna Chalwati

Saint Mary's University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
This paper examines the relationship between poison pills, real earnings management and initial public offering (IPO) failure.

Design/methodology/approach
The authors sampled 2,997 IPO firms that went public during 1993-2015.

Findings
The authors find that IPO firms manipulate earnings upward using real earnings management. The authors also find that IPO firms exhibiting a higher level of real earnings management have a higher probability of IPO failure. In addition, the authors find that weak shareholders' governance is positively associated with IPO failure.

Practical implications
These results suggest that poor governance structures in failed firms open the door to manipulating real activities and increasing operational risk.

Originality/value
The study findings are of most significant interest to potential investors and other stakeholders affiliated with a firm going public, an auditor, an underwriter, the lawyers who consult with the firm and employees or executives who might consider joining that firm.

Keywords: Accruals/real earnings management, IPO failure, Shareholder governance

Suggested Citation:

Trabelsi, Samir and Chalwati, Amna and Chalwati, Amna, Poison Pills Adoption, Real Earnings Management and IPO Failure (December 1, 2023). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4625619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
B Al Dah , A Michael , R Dixon , E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Y Arikawa , Y Mitsusada
The adoption of poison pills and managerial entrenchment: Evidence from Japan
Japan and the World Economy , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 77 Posted: 2011
Y G P Azevedo , L A D Schwarz , H B Gomes , M A Ambrozini
Stock price crash risk and the adoption of poison pills: Evidence from Brazil
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 691 - 711 Posted: 2023
M Baker , P A Gompers
The determinants of board structure at the initial public offering
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 598 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies