Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Environment of Firms with Worker Representation on Corporate Board

59 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Sascha Kieback

University of Münster

Martin Thomsen

University of Siegen

Christoph Watrin

University of Muenster - Accounting Center; University of Muenster - Accounting Center

Date Written: February 11, 2025

Abstract

We provide evidence that firms with worker representation on their board have more transparent information environments. We use a discontinuity in the German laws on worker representation for identification and find strong and consistent evidence that firms with worker representation are associated with smaller analyst earnings forecast errors. We identify several channels for the improved transparency, including more detailed management guidance and more detailed financial statement reporting. Moreover, we find that insider purchases in firms with worker representation are less opportunistic than in firms with no worker representation. Our evidence is consistent with economic theory that predicts worker representatives provide operational first-hand knowledge to the board, which translates to more transparency and less information asymmetry. Overall, our results indicate that firms with worker representation have a more transparent information environment and that worker representatives in the boardroom have an important informational role that reduces information asymmetries.

Keywords: board members, worker representation, information environment, analysts, earnings forecasts, insider trading, corporate governance, corporate transparency

JEL Classification: G17, G34, J50, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Cristi A. and Kieback, Sascha and Thomsen, Martin and Watrin, Christoph and Watrin, Christoph, The Information Environment of Firms with Worker Representation on Corporate Board (February 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4626214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
J S Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
360,957
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies