Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distinctive Corporate Governance Challenges in Asian Family Businesses

42 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 19 Dec 2023

Benedict Sheehy

University of Canberra

Rochelle Marie Cortez

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

Corporate governance theory, practice and concerns are global phenomena. Most scholars theorise that the world will converge on a single model which will be adopted everywhere. Investigation of that theory, however, leads to a different conclusion. While there is some convergence, significant divergence persists and practices differ around the globe. The reasons for these differences are not well understood. Patterns of concentrated holdings persist, as to regional preferences and other social norms that appear to be resistant and resilient to economic logic. Among these persistent divergences and differences are Asian business practices and family business practices. This article investigates these hypotheses in the specific context of Philippine family businesses.

Keywords: Family business, Corporate Governance, Asian Business, Asian family business

JEL Classification: L2, M14

Suggested Citation:

Sheehy, Benedict and Cortez, Rochelle Marie, Distinctive Corporate Governance Challenges in Asian Family Businesses (November 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4626349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
John C Coffee
Dispersed Ownership: The Theories, the Evidence, and the Enduring Tension Between 'Lumpers' and 'Splitters' (Columbia Law and Economics Working Posted: 2010
Andrew Wilson , Marc Schleifer
The Corporate Governance Implications of Concentrated Ownership Posted: 2013-09-10
H Albert , Choi
Concentrated Ownership and Long-Term Shareholder Value
Harv. Bus. Law Rev , volume 8 Posted: 2018
Yi Jiang , Mike W Peng
Principal-Principal Conflicts during Crisis
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
390,788
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies