Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Cash Holdings: New Evidence from Asian Markets

International Journal of Business and Emerging Markets

38 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Seyed Alireza Athari

Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK); European University of Lefke

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the impacts of the firm and country-level governance settings on Asian firms’ cash holdings. Furthermore, this study investigates the effect of corporate governance components on cash holdings and also probes the impact of governance settings on firms’ excess cash. This study selects 608 listed companies operating in Asian markets and performs panel data approaches between 2010-2017. The findings reveal that companies with stronger governance mechanisms stockpile less cash, supporting the agency theory. Besides, the findings highlight that the effect of corporate governance is more prominent in strong investor protection environments, implying that they are complements. Likewise, further analysis shows that firms hold less cash by increasing independent directors, splitting CEO and chair positions, and also increasing the diversity of the board. Unlike ineffective legal systems, the results also reveal that a strong governance system leads firms to decrease capital investment but increase R&D investment and dividend payouts. More specifically, the results show that in strong investor protection settings, companies with strong corporate governance invest a significant 0.5% and 0.1% more in R&D and dividend payouts than their counterparts.

Keywords: corporate governance; CG; investor protection; IP; cash holdings; country risk; Asian markets

Suggested Citation:

Athari, Seyed Alireza, Corporate Governance and Cash Holdings: New Evidence from Asian Markets (November 8, 2023). International Journal of Business and Emerging Markets, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson , Y Thaicharoen
Institutional causes, macroeconomic symptoms: volatility, crises and growth
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 123 Posted: 2003
T Akhtar , M A Tareq , K Rashid
The role of shareholders and creditors' rights in affecting cash holdings and firm value: A recent evidence from ASEAN
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 929 - 961 Posted: 2023
B Al-Najjar
The financial determinants of corporate cash holdings: Evidence from some emerging markets
International Business Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 88 Posted: 2013
B Al-Najjar , Y Belghitar
Corporate cash holdings and dividend payments: Evidence from simultaneous analysis
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 231 - 241 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
596,846
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies