Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture and M&A Deals: Using Text from Crowdsourced Employer Reviews to Measure Cultural Differences

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 161, 2024

62 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2023 Last revised: 23 Apr 2024

Tobias Hertel

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of Finance and Banking

Devrimi Kaya

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Doron Reichmann

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: February 26, 2024

Abstract

Corporate culture constitutes a key success factor in mergers and acquisitions (M&A). We examine the role of acquirer-target cultural differences in US domestic M&A deals. We train a topic model on how employees describe corporate culture in free-response texts of crowdsourced employer reviews to estimate cultural differences between the acquirer-target pairs. We find a negative linear relationship between cultural differences and deal announcement returns. However, adding a squared term of our main variable of interest to our model reveals a U-shaped relationship between cultural differences and announcement returns that is stronger in magnitude and statistical significance than the single term alone. Our results reconcile two competing hypotheses on the role of cultural differences in M&A.

Suggested Citation:

Hertel, Tobias and Kaya, Devrimi and Reichmann, Doron, Corporate Culture and M&A Deals: Using Text from Crowdsourced Employer Reviews to Measure Cultural Differences (February 26, 2024). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 161, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4626216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
RANK
328,615
2 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies