Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“The Impact of Financial Regulation on the Ability of Emerging Growth Companies to Raise Capital in the US.”

35 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Elizabeth Nankunda

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Date Written: March 26, 2023

Abstract

Emerging growth companies (EGCs) drive innovation and economic growth in the United States. They face significant challenges in raising capital as they may need to establish revenue streams or assets to use as collateral. EGCs may rely on external financing sources such as venture capital, angel investing, or Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) to overcome these challenges. Since the Financial Crisis of 2008, Financial regulations, such as the JOBS Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, Regulation A+, and crowdfunding regulations, have been implemented to ensure financial stability and investor protection. These regulations have impacted EGCs’ ability to raise capital. This research aims to identify the specific financial regulations affecting EGCs and analyze their impact on EGCs' ability to raise capital in the USA using secondary data analysis. The findings will provide valuable information for policymakers, investors, and EGCs to support their decision-making when raising capital. This research is particularly relevant in the current economic climate, as policymakers and investors must balance financial stability and investor protection with the growth and success of EGCs.

Keywords: Emerging Growth Companies, Financial Regulation, Capital Raising, Crowdfunding, Investor Protection, Initial Public Offerings, Venture Capital, Angel Investing, Financial Crisis, Economic Growth, Innovation, Regulatory Burdens, Disclosure Requirements, Private Placements, Accredited Investors, Capit

Suggested Citation:

Nankunda, Elizabeth, “The Impact of Financial Regulation on the Ability of Emerging Growth Companies to Raise Capital in the US.” (March 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Ahlstrom , D Cumming , S Vismara
New methods of entrepreneurial firm financing: Fintech, crowdfunding and corporate governance implications
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 310 - 313 Posted: 2018
S Asthana , A L Boone
The impact of regulatory burdens on small businesses
Small Business Economics , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 329 - 348 Posted: 2019
J N Baron , M T Hannan , M D Burton
Building the iron cage: Determinants of managerial intensity in the early years of organizations
American Sociological Review , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 527 - 547 Posted: 1999
A Barr
Emerging growth companies and the regulation of capital markets
Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
182,421
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies