Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Disclosures and Firms' Internal Information Environment

61 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2023

Till Muenster

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Christoph Watrin

University of Muenster - Accounting Center; University of Muenster - Accounting Center

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relationship between country-by-country disclosures and multinational entities’ internal information environments. We argue that the introduction of U.S. country-by-country reporting (CbCR) induces firms to change their information processing structures when the demanded information is not readily available, thereby increasing the need for effective information flows but simultaneously adding reporting complexity. We use a difference-in-differences design to examine our hypothesis and find that firms affected by CbCR have a significantly lower likelihood of having tax-related material weaknesses in internal controls than other firms. The effect is robust to alternative research designs, placebo tests, sample balancing, and addressing the rarity of internal control weaknesses. Consistent with less complex firms benefitting more from CbCR disclosure rules, we find the results to be pronounced in firms with lower ex ante organizational complexity. Finally, we show that firms with material weaknesses become less likely to address issues with a cross-border context in the 10-K filing when affected by CbCR. Our results are consistent with CbCR stimulating firms to improve their information processing structures, resulting in higher-quality internal controls.

Keywords: BEPS, country-by-country disclosure, internal control system, internal information environment, tax transparency, regulation

JEL Classification: G38, H25, H26, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Muenster, Till and Watrin, Christoph and Watrin, Christoph, Country-by-Country Disclosures and Firms' Internal Information Environment (November 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,303
RANK
226,777
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies