Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Regulatory Focus and Tax Avoidance

45 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Erica Bauman

Independent

Joost Impink

University of Florida

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Gary A. McGill

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

Regulatory focus theory proposes that strategic decision making, and goal pursuit occur via either a promotion focus – which emphasizes strong ideals and a desired end state – or a prevention focus – which emphasizes strong “oughts” and a need for stability, safety, and vigilance. We posit that executives predominantly motivated through a promotion focus emphasize the gains accruing from tax avoidance and should therefore engage in significantly greater levels of tax avoidance. Using textual analysis of CEO’s letter to shareholders to measure promotion and prevention regulatory focus, we find firms with CEOs in a predominantly promotion focus pay less corporate income tax than firms with CEOs in a predominantly prevention focus. By grounding executive effects on tax avoidance in cognitive, behavioral, and motivational theory, we provide insight into how and why individual managers craft corporate policies and practices.

Keywords: regulatory focus; tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H25; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bauman, Erica and Impink, Joost and Mayberry, Michael and McGill, Gary A., Executive Regulatory Focus and Tax Avoidance (November 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
E Amir , J M Carabias , J Jona , G Livne , C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
M R Barrick , M K Mount
Yes, personality matters: Moving on to more important matters. Human Performance , volume 18 , p. 359 - 372 Posted: 2005
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Religiosity and tax avoidance
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 84 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
345,746
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies