Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences for Culpable Auditors

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research

65 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2023 Last revised: 19 Feb 2025

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Meng Li

University of Texas at Arlington

Mihir N. Mehta

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

We present the first comprehensive descriptive evidence on the labor market and personal consequences for audit professionals in the United States who are named in SEC or PCAOB enforcement actions. Three key findings emerge. First, between 38% and 73% of culpable auditors depart from their firms within one year after the enforcement event. These departure rates are three to four times higher compared to a sample of non-culpable auditors. Second, 83% of culpable auditors departing from Big 4 accounting firms exit the profession, compared to 58% of a non-culpable comparison group. In contrast, about 77% of the culpable auditors leaving non-Big 4 accounting firms remain in public accounting, compared to 51% of a non-culpable comparison group. Third, using novel data on personal real estate holdings, we find that culpable auditors do not appear to engage in markedly different transactions around enforcement compared to a comparison sample of non-culpable individuals.

Keywords: Audit, Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, Enforcement, AAER, Deterrence

JEL Classification: K42, L51, M40, M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Jagan and Li, Meng and Mehta, Mihir N. and Park, Hyun Jong, Consequences for Culpable Auditors (November 8, 2023). Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management turnover and governance changes following the revelation of fraud
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , issue S1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
CPA Firm Gender Survey Posted: 2019
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , C-J. Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
247,189
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies