Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of strategic collaborative agreements and the cost of equity capital

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1111/jifm.12191

66 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Ya-Guang Du

Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications

Ying He

Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications

Meng-Nan Guo

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: November 2023

Abstract

How corporate strategic disclosure affects investor evaluations is a crucial and widely discussed question. Although prior literature has spent efforts analyzing the information effect of strategic alliances on investor reactions, whether this effect can extend to the cost of equity capital still needs to be explored. Using data from China’s A-share listed firms from 2007 to 2021, we examine the impact of disclosing strategic collaborative agreements on equity capital costs. We find that disclosing strategic collaborative agreements relates to lower equity capital costs. These results hold after several robustness checks. The Mechanism test reveals that announcing strategic collaborative agreements alleviates equity capital costs mainly through the information effect. Moreover, this effect is more salient in firms with lower agency costs, lower media coverage, positive media sentiment, and higher media quality. These findings suggest that strategic collaborative agreements provide investors with valuable information.

Keywords: strategic collaborative agreements, the cost of equity capital, information effect, voluntary disclosure, media coverage

Suggested Citation:

Du, Ya-Guang and He, Ying and Guo, Meng-Nan, Disclosure of strategic collaborative agreements and the cost of equity capital (November 2023). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1111/jifm.12191, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
F Allen , J Qian , M J Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
A Amici , F Fiordelisi , F Masala , O Ricc , F Sist
Value creation in banking through strategic alliances and joint ventures
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1386 - 1396 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
RANK
514,660
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies