Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Footprints in Private Equity Portfolios: Unpacking Management Instruments and Financial Performance

46 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2023

Noah Bani-Harouni

EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht - EBS Business School - Department of Finance and Accounting; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Ulrich Hommel

EBS Business School

Falko Paetzold

EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht; University of Zurich, Center for Sustainable Finance and Private Wealth

Abstract

Based on data covering 206 buyout funds for the time period 2010-2022, this study examines how the utilization of different ESG-management instruments is linked to such funds’ ESG portfolio footprints and financial performance. Improving fund-level ESG footprints by 50% explains a statistically and economically significant net IRR increase of up to 12.4% over a fund’s life cycle. The outcome is linked to specific ESG-management instruments of private equity investors, such as centralised ESG management and ESG value enhancement plans, while no significant effect is recorded for other measures, such as ESG reporting frequencies and ESG impact controlling. The findings contribute to the perspectives on financial returns and impact in the still under-explored asset class of private equity.

Keywords: Private equity, Socially responsible investment, ESG, corporate finance, strategy

Suggested Citation:

Bani-Harouni, Noah and Hommel, Ulrich and Paetzold, Falko, ESG Footprints in Private Equity Portfolios: Unpacking Management Instruments and Financial Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
140 References
V V Acharya , O F Gottschalg , M Hahn , C Kehoe
Corporate Governance and Value Creation: Evidence from Private Equity
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 402 Posted: 2013
P Aigner , S Albrecht , G Beyschlag , T Friedrich , M Kalepky , R Zagst
What Drives PE? Analyses of Success Factors for Private Equity Funds
The Journal of Private Equity , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 63 - 85 Posted: 2008
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2017
S Arvidsson , J Dumay
Corporate ESG reporting quantity, quality and performance: Where to now for environmental policy and practice?
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 1091 - 1110 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,530
RANK
105,875
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies