Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
TMT Functional Background Heterogeneity, CEO Power and Innovation Efficiency of Declining Firms

28 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2023

Huang Xunjiang

Northeastern University (USA)

Deng Wang

Wuhan Bohong Construction Group Co., Ltd

Abstract

Most firms will face decline in their life cycle. Innovation is an important strategic choice for declining firms to achieve recovery and even regain long-term competitive advantage. Declining firms adopt many different strategic measures such as innovation, top management team restructuring, and CEO power adjustment to reverse their performance. Based on upper echelons theory and imprinting theory, from the perspective of power, using the data of Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listed manufacturing firms from 2015 to 2019, this paper empirically tests the impacts of TMT functional background heterogeneity and CEO power on the innovation efficiency of declining firms. The result shows that, compared with normal firms, TMT functional background heterogeneity has a stronger promoting effect on the innovation efficiency of declining firms, while the excessive CEO power will more significantly inhibit this effect.

Keywords: TMT functional background, CEO power, Innovation efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Xunjiang, Huang and Wang, Deng, TMT Functional Background Heterogeneity, CEO Power and Innovation Efficiency of Declining Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
M A Abebe
Top team composition and corporate turnaround under environmental stability and turbulence
Leadership & Organization Development Journal , volume 31 , issue 3-4 , p. 196 - 212 Posted: 2010
M Aboramadan
Top management teams characteristics and firms performance: Literature review and avenues for future research
International Journal of Organizational Analysis , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 603 - 628 Posted: 2021
Alessandra R Patricia , G Eskil , L B G
CEO succession with gender change in troubled firms: The effect of a new woman CEO on firm risk and firm risk perceived
Scandinavian Journal of Management , volume 37 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
J L Andrus , M C Withers , S H Courtright , S Boivie
Go your own way: Exploring the causes of top executive turnover
Strategic Management Journal , volume 40 , issue 7 , p. 1151 - 1168 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
889,053
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies