Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Media Disclosure and Reputational Damage

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2024

48 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 22 Jan 2024

Xing Huan

EDHEC Business School

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Giulia Redigolo

ESADE Business School; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zhewei Zhang

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: January 20, 2024

Abstract

We provide new evidence on the effects of social media in the context of a financial scandal using a sample of banks that were accused of manipulating the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). We find that increased bank Twitter activity when the scandal surfaced has a positive moderating effect on equity returns. However, the dissemination of content operated by social media users has a negative counterbalancing effect, thus amplifying the impact of the scandal. In particular, tweets that are unrelated to the scandal and characterized by positive sentiment contribute to exacerbating the reputational damage suffered by banks. We contribute to the emerging literature on the role of social media in capital markets.

Keywords: Disclosure, LIBOR Scandal, Operational Risk, Reputation, Social Media, Twitter

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huan, Xing and Parbonetti, Antonio and Redigolo, Giulia and Redigolo, Giulia and Zhang, Zhewei, Social Media Disclosure and Reputational Damage (January 20, 2024). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4628216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
M Al Guindy , J P Naughton , R Riordan
The evolution of corporate Twitter usage
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Posted: 2023
C R Alexander
On the nature of the reputational penalty for corporate crime: Evidence
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , issue S1 , p. 489 - 526 Posted: 1999
L Allen , A Saunders
Incorporating systemic influences into risk measurements: A survey of the literature
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 2004
Mohamed Amin , E K Elragal , A
CSR disclosure on Twitter: Evidence from the UK
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 40 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
RANK
359,199
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies