Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does central bank digital currency adoption affect the asymmetric cost behavior of firms?

50 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2025 Last revised: 10 Jul 2025

Guanglong Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine how the introduction of a central bank digital currency (CBDC) affects corporate sticky cost behavior, using the phased rollout of the electronic Chinese yuan (e-CNY) as an exogenous shock. Our findings reveal a significant reduction in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) cost stickiness among treatment firms following the e-CNY pilot. We attribute these findings to the effectiveness of e-CNY in mitigating firms’ agency problems. Consistent with this argument, we observe a substantial decrease in the downward stickiness of firms’ perk expenditures after the introduction of e-CNY. Additionally, firms facing higher ex ante agency costs and weaker ex ante governance practices benefit more from the e-CNY introduction. Consequently, firms with reduced SG&A stickiness due to the adoption of e-CNY experience lower future SG&A expenses, higher profitability, and higher market value. These findings advance our understanding of CBDC’s microeconomic effects and establish its role as an innovative corporate governance tool.

Keywords: Central bank digital currency; e-CNY; SG&A stickiness; Agency costs

JEL Classification: D24; E42; E58; M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Guanglong and Chan, Johnny, Does central bank digital currency adoption affect the asymmetric cost behavior of firms? (November 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4628999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
See The , Pboc
Progress of Research & Development of E-CNY in China Posted: 2025-04-11
To further facilitate adoption, Chinese authorities have expanded pilot programs to Hong Kong for cross-border applications. E-CNY is now fully integrated into major payment platforms, including Alipay and WeChat Pay, as well as high-frequency consumer platforms such as Taobao, Meituan, and JD.com. For more details, see
October 2021 to 261 million Posted: 2021-12
Mechanism: The mitigation of agency problems In hypothesis development, we posit that the first-order mechanism through which e-CNY influences corporate SG&A stickiness is by mitigating agency problems. Specifically, leveraging its inherent characteristics such as transparency, traceability, and immutability, e-CNY helps mitigates insider and state agency costs
Ang
The effect of e-CNY on the stickiness of corporate perquisite consumption Agency costs, including managerial perquisite consumption
Tang Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
509
RANK
490,025
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies