Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency and Bank Liability Structure

49 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 8 Oct 2025

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 13, 2025

Abstract

We study the desirability of transparent accounting information for banks depending on their liability structure. In our model, a bank finances a long-term project with both uninsured and insured deposits. While uninsured deposits increase rollover risk and may generate inefficient liquidations, they may also discipline the bank with efficient liquidations. Importantly, the transparent accounting regime provides more timely information to depositors about the underlying performance of the project than the opaque regime. We show that the transparent regime is more likely to be welfare-enhancing when the amount of insured deposits is small, as the bank then issues the optimal amount of uninsured deposits and benefits from the disciplinary role of those deposits. Otherwise, when the amount of insured deposits is large, the cost from inefficient liquidations triggered by uninsured deposits dominates, resulting in the opaque regime being welfare-enhancing. Our results show that more transparent accounting is not a panacea and provide some support for the “mark-to-funding” accounting rule discussed in the literature (Bischof et al., 2021; Brunnermeier et al., 2009). They also generate novel empirical and policy implications, in light of the recent regional bank failures in the US.

Keywords: liability structure, moral hazard, rollover risk, financial institutions, mark-to-funding accounting, transparency

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Mahieux, Lucas, Transparency and Bank Liability Structure (August 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4628747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
J Bertomeu , L Mahieux , H Sapra
Interplay between accounting and prudential regulation
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 53 Posted: 2023
M T Billett , J A Garfinkel
Financial flexibility and the cost of external finance for us bank holding companies
Journal of Money, Credit and banking , p. 827 - 852 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
297,230
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies