Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Salience of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Air Pollution and Firm Performance

45 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Jieying Hong

Beihang University (BUAA) - School of Economic and Management Science

Ran Shao

Yeshiva University

Na Wang

Hofstra University - Frank G. Zarb School of Business

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of air pollution on investors’ valuation of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Utilizing China’s air pollution index, we observe that stocks with high CSR scores exhibit higher returns (accompanied by increased turnover and idiosyncratic risk) during periods of deteriorating local air quality. To delve into causality, we analyze a quasi-experiment involving a government policy that provides free heating (resulting in increased pollution) in the northern region of China during winter. Our results support the notion that investors pay heightened attention to CSR practices of local firms in response to elevated pollution levels. Furthermore, we substantiate this increased attention through an analysis of internet search volumes related to pollution and corporate social responsibility. Overall, our study underscores the salience of CSR when confronted with higher levels of local air pollution, shedding light on both the preference-based and risk-based explanations for investing in socially responsible stocks.

Keywords: air pollution, corporate social responsibility, stock returns and risks, internet search volumes, salience.

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G41.

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Jieying and Shao, Ran and Wang, Na, The Salience of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Air Pollution and Firm Performance (November 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4628998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Almond , Y Chen , M Greenstone , Li H
Winter Heating or Clean Air? Unintended Impacts of China's Huai River Policy
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 184 - 190 Posted: 2009
J Ang , Y Cheng , C Wu
Trust, Investment, and Business Contracting , volume 50 , p. 569 - 595 Posted: 2015
R Bansal , D Wu , Yaron A
Socially Responsible Investing in Good and Bad Times
Review of Financial Studies , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 2067 - 2099 Posted: 2022
A Bernstein , M T Gustafson , R Lewis
Disaster on the Horizon: The Price Effect of Sea Level Rise
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 134 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
598
RANK
667,795
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies