Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping Economic Landscapes: A Historical Perspective on Pakistan's Family Business Groups

21 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Sattar Khan

Institute of Management Sciences - Peshawar

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the historical perspective of one of the important aspects of Pakistan’s economy: the business groups, also known as family business groups. This study has used a sample of 323 non-financial listed firms on the Pakistan Stock Exchange from 2010 to 2019. Out of those 323 non-financial listed firms, 187 have affiliation with 72 family business groups operating in Pakistan and have listed firms on the Pakistan Stock Exchange. Data was manually collected from companies’ annual reports, companies’ websites, and Pakistan Stock Exchange data portal. In this research study, I have made two types of classifications of family business groups in Pakistan: one through the total assets of the affiliated firms of the family business groups and another through the number of affiliated firms of the family business groups. The findings show that the two largest groups in terms of the number of affiliated firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange are the Crescent Group and the BiboJee Group. Moreover, based on the number of total assets, the biggest group is the Sitara Group. This family business group has the largest assets as compared to other family business groups. Additionally, this study adds its part to the corporate governance literature by focusing on family business groups, which is lacking in the related literature in general and in Pakistan, an emerging economy in particular.

Keywords: Business Groups, Family Business Groups, Corporate Governance, and Pakistan Stock Exchange

JEL Classification: M1, M2, M5

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Sattar, Shaping Economic Landscapes: A Historical Perspective on Pakistan's Family Business Groups (October 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4629856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Amjad
Industrial concentration and economic power in Pakistan
Pakistan Economic and Social Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 211 - 261 Posted: 1976
C Beuselinck , M Deloof
Earnings management in business groups: Tax incentives or expropriation concealment?
International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 52 Posted: 2014
A I Bhutta , J Knif , M F Sheikh
Ownership concentration, client importance, and earnings management: Evidence from Pakistani business groups
SSRN Electronic Journal , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2016
A I Bhutta , T Suleman
Capital Structure and Business Groups: Evidence from Pakistan
Journal of Management Sciences , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 248 - 268 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
250,789
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies