Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and Environmental Social Governance: An Exploratory Landscape of AI Toolkit

15 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Nicola Cucari

Sapienza University of Rome

Giulia Nevi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Francesco Laviola

Sapienza University of Rome - Department of Management

Luca Barbagli

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 11, 2023

Abstract

The race to artificial intelligence (AI) and the opportunities it offers also finds use in the field of sustainable business action. This paper presents an initial mapping of AI tools supporting ESG pillars. Through the case study method, 32 companies and tools supporting environmental social governance (ESG) management were investigated, highlighting which of the different AI systems they use and enabling the design of the new AI-ESG ecosystem. The study, in addition to its usefulness in rearranging the current AI-ESG landscape, offers valuable support to companies committed to ESG goals and to institutional decision-makers engaged in the contemporary ESG agenda.

Keywords: ESG, AI, ESG toolkit, ESG ecosystem, AI landscape

JEL Classification: M10, M20,

Suggested Citation:

Cucari, Nicola and Nevi, Giulia and Laviola, Francesco and Barbagli, Luca, Artificial Intelligence and Environmental Social Governance: An Exploratory Landscape of AI Toolkit (November 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4629933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
B Bahra , L Thukral
ESG in global corporate bonds: the analysis behind the hype
The Journal of Portfolio Management Posted: 2020
T Barko , M Cremers , L Renneboog , F Berg , J Kölbel , R Rigobon
Shareholder engagement on environmental, social, and governance performance
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings. Forthcoming Review of Finance , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2021
V Božić
Environmental, social, and governance (esg) & artifical intelligence Posted: 2023-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,669
RANK
162,978
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies