Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home bias in shareholder voting

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2023/21

23 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2023

Xuan Li

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

Institutional investors’ proxy voting decisions are influenced by their geographic proximity to portfolio firms. Using a sample of over 50 million votes cast by U.S. and non-U.S. investors globally, I find that investors are more likely to vote with management at domestic firms than at foreign firms, especially when ISS disagrees with management. I further demonstrate that the home bias can be explained by local investors’ information advantage and business ties with domestic firms. These results suggest that home bias is an important determinant of proxy voting behavior, and the existence of home bias is at least partially driven by rationality-based reasons.

Keywords: Home bias, Geographic proximity, Proxy voting, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: C10, D72, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xuan, Home bias in shareholder voting (November 10, 2023). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2023/21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4629306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
for details). However, the disclosure can be a short summary of their actual voting policies under the condition that further details must be provided upon client request
Such information is disclosed in the SAIs that supplement funds' prospectus (Couvert, 2020), as well as in investment advisors' ADV filings , volume 206
Both ISS and Glass Lewis publish their voting policies for each region on their websites
References Aggarwal , R Erel , I Ferreira , M Matos , P
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
K H Bae , R M Stulzb , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
490,025
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies