Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of corporate governance on impression management within chairmen letter of Indian listed companies

40 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Arshad S Riyaz

University of Verona

Vijay Kumar Gupta

Government of India

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

Accounting narratives is one of the valuable communication tool for the management to provide extensive information that supports the financial statement of the company and thus elaborates more on its performances. If used opportunistically by the management of the firm, it may lead to inaccurate perception of the firm performance leading to misappropriation of capital. We estimate corporate governance as a critical mechanism that may control such practices and encourage more of the neutral and balanced reporting for the corporate. We analyze 85 Indian listed firms accounting narrative in the form of chairperson letter to identify the link between various impression management techniques and the corporate governance variables along with identified control variables. The result establishes that efficient governance does discourages Impression management especially the thematic analyses and does have limited control over quantitative aspects of Impression management. This result holds for the accounting narrative of chairman letter and encourages for further reporting analyses.

Keywords: Impression Management, Corporate Goverance, Indian Corporate

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Riyaz, Arshad S and Gupta, Vijay Kumar, The effect of corporate governance on impression management within chairmen letter of Indian listed companies (November 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4629442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
168 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organizational outcomes: An agency theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
A H Adelberg
Narrative disclosures contained in financial reports: Means of communication or manipulation
Accounting and Business Research , volume 10 , issue summer , p. 179 - 189 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
168 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies