Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Unexpected Serendipity: The Effect of D&O Insurance on Corporate Carbon Emissions in Manufacturing Industry

38 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Xiaonan Sun

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Date Written: November 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines how directors' and officers' liability insurance (D&O insurance) affects corporate carbon emissions in the manufacturing industry. It shows that D&O insurance significantly and persistently lowers the carbon emission intensity of firms. The paper identifies two channels through which D&O insurance affects corporate environmental behaviors: fostering green innovation and enhancing internal control. Heterogeneity analysis finds that the emission-reducing effect of D&O insurance is stronger for firms in regions with lax environmental regulation and poor resource endowment, and stronger for firms with low executive compensation and high ownership-control divergence. The paper confirms the positive role of D&O insurance in providing managerial incentives and corporate governance for carbon emission reduction and offers new implications and evidence for energy conservation practices in firms.

Keywords: carbon emissions, D&O insurance, managerial incentives, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Xiaonan, An Unexpected Serendipity: The Effect of D&O Insurance on Corporate Carbon Emissions in Manufacturing Industry (November 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4630608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4630608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
I Aguir , W Aguir
Director and officer liability protection and firm value: Unintended consequences
Finance Research Letters , volume 32 Posted: 2020
G A Akerlof
The market for "Lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , J Kinney , R William , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
499
RANK
730,194
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies