Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Review of the Common Ownership Literature

FRB Atlanta Working Paper No. 2023-17

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 943/2023

48 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2023

Kristopher Gerardi

Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta

Michelle Lowry

Drexel University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Carola Schenone

University of Virginia - McIntire School

Date Written: November, 2023

Abstract

The rapid growth in index funds and significant consolidation in the asset-management industry over the past few decades has led to higher levels of common ownership and increased attention on the topic by academic researchers. A consensus has yet to emerge from the literature regarding the consequences of increased common ownership on firm behavior and market outcomes. Given the potential implications for firms and investors alike, it is perhaps not surprising that policymakers, legal scholars, finance and accounting academics, and practitioners have all taken a keen interest in the subject. This paper provides an overview of the theoretical underpinnings of common ownership and critically reviews the empirical literature. Measurement issues and identification challenges are detailed, and a discussion of plausible causal mechanisms is provided. Across the newest papers employing the most credible identification techniques, there is relatively little evidence that common ownership causes lower competition. However, further research is necessary before broad conclusions can be reached.

Keywords: common ownership, institutional investors, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34, L22

Suggested Citation:

Gerardi, Kristopher S. and Lowry, Michelle B. and Schenone, Carola, A Critical Review of the Common Ownership Literature (November, 2023). FRB Atlanta Working Paper No. 2023-17, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 943/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4630765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.29338/wp2023-17
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Konrad Adler , Yuliyan Mitkov
When does overlapping ownership soften competition? the role of agency frictions and repeated interaction Posted: 2023
Anat Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
The wall street walk and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
Miguel Anton , Florian Ederer , Mireia Gine , Martin Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy Posted: 2023
Ian R Appel , A Todd , Donald B Gormley , Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
687
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
RANK
86,685
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies