Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Antitakeover Provision Harm Shareholders? Indexing for Antitakeover Provisions in China

Sirui Han, Does Antitakeover Provision Harm Shareholders? Indexing for Antitakeover Provisions in China, Asian Journal of Law and Economics (Forthcoming)

35 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2023 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Sirui Han

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Date Written: November 12, 2023

Abstract

Does antitakeover harm shareholders? Encumbered by a multitude of theoretical perspectives, the legality of antitakeover remains a shared intellectual inquiry that the A-share market has yet to fully address. This paper constructs a governance index for the A-share market based on a manually collected and hand-coded research dataset (C-index). This dataset, comprising 4,251 historical firm-level profiles of Antitakeover Provisions (ATPs), is meticulously sampled from companies listed in China from 2001 to 2017. The study investigates the logical correlation between antitakeover strength, financial performance, and the governance attributes of the company by leveraging the index's economic utility. Additionally, this paper explores the firm-level factors that prompt corporate directors to integrate ATPs. From an empirical standpoint, it provides evidence that the governance index of firm-level strength of ATPs is positively correlated with share liquidity, institutional shareholding, private ownership, and the company's commitment to achieving specific financial performance.

Keywords: Antitakeover, Takeover Defense, Corporate Governance, Empirical Legal Studies, China

Suggested Citation:

Han, Sirui, Does Antitakeover Provision Harm Shareholders? Indexing for Antitakeover Provisions in China (November 12, 2023). Sirui Han, Does Antitakeover Provision Harm Shareholders? Indexing for Antitakeover Provisions in China, Asian Journal of Law and Economics (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4630139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Eugene F Fama , Michael C Jensen
Separation of Ownership and Control' (1983) 26
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 301
Brian R Cheffins
Does Law Matter? The Separation of Ownership and Control in the United Kingdom' (2001) 30
The Journal of Legal Studies , volume 459
Eugene F Fama
Agency Problems and the Theory of the Firm' (1980)
Journal of Political Economy , volume 88
Yoshiro Miwa , J Mark Ramseyer
Corporate Governance in Transitional Economies: Lessons from the Prewar Japanese Cotton Textile Industry' (2000) 29
The Journal of Legal Studies , volume 171
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
308
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies