Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ESG Guide Chinese Stock Investment with Economic Policy Uncertainty in Trade War

41 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

Yilan Luo

School of Economics and Trade, Hunan University

Wen-Chi Liao

NUS Business School, National University of Singapore

Abstract

While research in sustainable finance has predominantly centered around advanced economies, this paper investigates the relationship between corporate ESG (Environment, Social, and Governance) information, investor awareness, and operating profitability in the Chinese financial market. Using a sample of 1,301 firms from 2018 to 2021, we find ESG to be a predictive indicator of companies' future operating performance. However, a premium for ESG stocks is inevident compared to the broader market. When examining the impact of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on stock performance, we find that companies with higher ESG scores tend to sustain higher operating profitability in uncertain times. However, investors' preference for ESG scores remains limited. In addition, ESG scores are valuable in predicting the operating profitability of exporting firms. We find economic intuitions for the empirical findings from the newly introduced ESG-CAPM theory and the impact of economic policy uncertainty in the face of increasing global trade volatility.

Keywords: esg, Sustainable investing, China, ESG awareness, Economic policy uncertainty, US-China trade war

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Yilan and Liao, Wen-Chi, Does ESG Guide Chinese Stock Investment with Economic Policy Uncertainty in Trade War. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4631649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4631649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
670
RANK
517,938
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies