Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover of Green Credit Disciplining on Corporate Misconduct

40 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Xiaoxu Ling

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Tian Min

East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) - School of Business

Piyush Sharma

Curtin University

Donghua Wang

East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) - School of Business

Siyuan Yan

East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) - School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2024

Abstract

We document the spillover disciplining effects of the green credit on corporate misconduct in addition to environmental violations. Exploiting the staggered green finance reform in China as a quasi-natural experiment, we find that pilot firms exhibit both less probability and frequency of financial misconduct after the green finance reform. We identify multiple economic mechanisms for this causal relationship. First, green credit improves internal governance by decreasing insider stock pledges, real earnings management, and related party transactions. Moreover, green credit results in increased external monitoring from institutional visits, analyst coverage, and media attention. Furthermore, we find that the disciplining effects are more pronounced for firms owned by the state, for firms in highly concentrated industries, and for firms with lower participation of independent directors and higher ownership concentration. Overall, our findings highlight that unique screening and oversight mechanisms associated with green credit could have positive spillovers on general credit governance, and assessing environmental initiatives can further provide visibility into overall accountability, controls, and reporting quality.

Keywords: Corporate Misconduct; Business Ethics; Green Credit; Market Discipline; Accountability

JEL Classification: G28; G38; Q58; M48

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Xiaoxu and Min, Tian and Sharma, Piyush and Wang, Donghua and Yan, Siyuan, The Spillover of Green Credit Disciplining on Corporate Misconduct (February 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4631593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4631593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
V V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Real effects of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe: Evidence from syndicated loans
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 2855 - 2896 Posted: 2018
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider share-pledging and equity risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 58 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
T Berg , M Reisinger , D Streitz
Spillover effects in empirical corporate finance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 3 , p. 1109 - 1127 Posted: 2021
P G Berger , H Lee
Did the Dodd-Frank whistleblower provision deter accounting fraud
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1337 - 1378 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
RANK
682,509
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies