Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Banks Practice What They Preach? Brown Lending and Environmental Disclosure in the Euro Area

ECB Working Paper No. 2023/2872

52 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2023

Leonardo Gambacorta

Bank for International Settlements (BIS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Salvatore Polizzi

University of Palermo - d/SEAS

Alessio Reghezza

European Central Bank (ECB)

Enzo Scannella

University of Palermo - d/SEAS

Date Written: November, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the level of environmental disclosure in banks’ financial reports matches less brown lending portfolios. Using granular credit register data and detailed information on firm-level greenhouse gas emission intensities, we find a negative relationship between environmental disclosure and brown lending. However, this effect is contingent on the tone of the financial report. Banks that express a negative tone, reflecting genuine concern and awareness of environmental risks, tend to lend less to more polluting firms. Conversely, banks that express a positive tone, indicating lower concern and awareness of environmental risks, tend to lend more to polluting firms. These findings highlight the importance of increasing awareness of environmental risks, so that banks perceive them as a critical and urgent pressing threat, leading to a genuine commitment to act as environmentally responsible lenders.

Keywords: banking, brown lending, climate change, environmental disclosure, environmental risks, green banking

JEL Classification: G20, G21, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Gambacorta, Leonardo and Polizzi, Salvatore and Reghezza, Alessio and Scannella, Enzo, Do Banks Practice What They Preach? Brown Lending and Environmental Disclosure in the Euro Area (November, 2023). ECB Working Paper No. 2023/2872, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4632041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4632041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
P Adämmer , R A Schüssler
Forecasting the equity premium: mind the news!
Review of Finance , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 1313 - 1355 Posted: 2020
S Agarwal , V Y Chen , W Zhang
The information value of credit rating action reports: A textual analysis
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 8 , p. 2218 - 2240 Posted: 2016
Y Altunbaş , S Polizzi , E Scannella , J Thornton
European Banking Union and bank risk disclosure: The effects of the Single Supervisory Mechanism
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 649 - 683 Posted: 2022
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes Ii
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
930
RANK
324,308
7 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Central Bank Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies