Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management by Acquiring Firms in Cash Mergers

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Kamran Malikov

University of Southampton

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: November 15, 2023

Abstract

We examine earnings management by cash bidders with debt financing. We hypothesize and find that highly leveraged cash bidders seeking to fund bids with debt manage earnings in the pre-merger period to secure the funding with better terms. Leverage plays a key role in this setting because we expect more leveraged bidders to find it more difficult to obtain the necessary funds with good lending terms to carry-out the bid, which increases their incentives to manage earnings. We consider earnings management through classification shifting and accruals, and find that classification shifting is more prevalent when managers appear to be constrained in their ability to manage accruals. Additionally, we find evidence that greater earnings management is associated with lower interest rates, larger debt amounts, and fewer financial covenants. This suggests that pre-merger earnings management efforts by highly leveraged cash bidders appear to be successful in securing debt funds with better terms. Whereas prior research on earnings management by bidders focuses primarily on stock bidders, we extend this research to cash bidders; we highlight that highly leveraged debt-financed bidders also engage in opaque financial reporting decisions prior to the bid announcement.

Keywords: cash bidders; mergers and acquisitions; leverage; classification shifting; accruals earnings management

JEL Classification: M40; M41, G10, G31

Suggested Citation:

Malikov, Kamran and Zalata, Alaa, Earnings Management by Acquiring Firms in Cash Mergers (November 15, 2023). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4633919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4633919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , E T Rapley
Earnings management constraints and classification shifting
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5-6 , p. 600 - 626 Posted: 2014
E Alfonso , C A Cheng , S Pan
Income classification shifting and mispricing of core earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
S C Anagnostopoulou , K T Malikov
The real consequences of classification shifting: Evidence from the efficiency of corporate investment
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Mohamed Hessian , Alaa Zalata , Khaled Hussainey
Does the Board of Directors and (Non)-Executives’ Ownership Mitigate Interest Payment Classification Shifting? UK Evidence
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming. (Accepted 19th February 2024). · 36 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 102
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
RANK
747,544
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies