Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contentious Valuations: Accounting Reports as Schelling Points

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB

46 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Matthew Shaffer

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 14, 2023

Abstract

This paper advances a new framework for understanding a use case for financial accounting, as anchoring Schelling points for institutional valuations. 'Institutional' denotes cases in which valuations are advanced to persuade parties to a collective agreement, such as M&A and bankruptcy. The parties in such settings face a problem with elements of a Keynesian beauty contest. The solution is a Schelling point, a choice that parties anchor on because they expect others to do the same for the same reason. A key question in such games is how that higher-order belief is grounded. Financial reporting has the properties that classically create Schelling points. I test the theory that financial statements form Schelling points for institutional valuations using the setting of M&A valuation disclosures. I find that M&A advisors predominantly use trailing multiples, of reported measures, even though it is common knowledge (to both the advisors and their prospective opponents) that forward multiples are better for accurate valuation. This is more pronounced in deals with more salient coordination and higher-order belief problems. Alternative explanations based on prior frameworks are ruled out. I contribute by explaining valuation practice in M&A, and introducing this framework for understanding how accounting functions in such settings. Applying a higher-order belief lens to understand valuation practice and decisions within institutional settings of this type presents a promising research avenue.

Keywords: M&A; Appraisal; Valuation; Accounting Multiples

JEL Classification: G30, G32, M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Shaffer, Matthew, Contentious Valuations: Accounting Reports as Schelling Points (November 14, 2023). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4633067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4633067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty contests and iterated expectations in asset markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
D G Baird , D S Bernstein
Absolute priority, valuation uncertainty, and the reorganization bargain
Yale Law Journal , volume 115 , issue 8 , p. 1930 - 1970 Posted: 2006
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
K Balakrishnan , C M Schrand , R Vashishtha
Analyst recommendations and stock price bubbles
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
201,467
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies