Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Compliance

57 UC Davis Law Review 415 (2023)

87 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Geeyoung Min

Michigan State University - College of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 16, 2023

Abstract

Corporate compliance is at an inflection point. As courts, regulators, and prosecutors simultaneously but independently incentivize companies to develop bespoke compliance programs, corporate policies have evolved into an essential private ordering mechanism for customized compliance. Corporate policies serve not merely as guidelines for corporate employees; they also signal the level of a company’s internal compliance mechanisms to external parties. Despite the ever-growing demand for the implementation of written corporate policies, how these policies are customized and monitored is largely unknown. Given the predominantly mandatory nature of regulatory compliance, how much discretion do corporate managers use — and how much should they use — in customizing compliance?

An analysis of original, hand-collected data on corporate policies from S&P 500 companies indicates that corporate managers actively customize not just compliance procedures, but also the definitional boundaries of compliance, either to be stricter or more lenient than is set by external regulations. For instance, the data show that most insider trading policies tend to have a broader definition of prohibited insider trading, while, in contrast, related party transaction policies often provide categorical exclusions that substantially narrow the definition of related party transactions. To better explain this puzzling trend of divergence, this Article introduces the concept of “strategic compliance,” suggesting that corporate policies amplify companies’ incentives to implement stringent internal monitoring where external enforcement is rigorous and adopt lenient internal monitoring where external enforcement is weak. However, it is essential to recognize that strategic compliance driven by external enforcement intensity, rather than tailored to each company’s unique risks, can result in suboptimal allocation of compliance resources and undermine the benefits of customized compliance.

This Article’s contribution is three-fold. First, it presents original, hand- collected empirical data from internal corporate policies, illuminating the prevailing trends in companies’ customization of regulatory compliance. Second, it introduces the concept of strategic compliance as a novel theoretical framework that connects corporate compliance and corporate contract literature, providing insights into the strategic processes companies employ in tailoring their corporate policies. Third, it offers normative proposals to companies, shareholders, regulators, and prosecutors for more effective use of corporate policies and emphasizes the information-gathering functions of those policies.

Keywords: Compliance, Compliance Programs, Corporate Policies, Regulation, Enforcement, Private Ordering, Disclosure, Information, Internal Control, Risk Management, SEC, DOJ, Related Party Transactions, Insider Trading, Code of Ethics, Caremark, Conflicts of Interest, Duty to Monitor, DPA/NPA

JEL Classification: G14, G38, K00, K12, K14, K22, K23, K42, M14, M53

Suggested Citation:

Min, Geeyoung, Strategic Compliance (November 16, 2023). 57 UC Davis Law Review 415 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4634480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
at 212 (referring to these "enhanced and specific information-acquisition duties
Id
, volume 229
U S Major
stock exchanges mandate the adoption and disclosure of written committee charters for certain committees
§ , volume 5605 , issue c
Nyse Listed Company Manual
§ 303A.05(b)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,332
RANK
179,159
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies