Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overview of Environmental Social and Governance System Reporting by Corporate Houses

Rabindra Bharati University Journal of Economics Vol: XXVII, No: 3, 2023

Posted: 23 Aug 2024

Dr. M Sakthivel Murugan

Dhanraj Baid Jain College

T. Sujatha

Vels Institute of Science Technology & Advanced Studies

Dr. S. Ganapathy

S.A. College of Arts and Science

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

The Methodology and assessment Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) is relevant to the corporate houses globally as well as in India. ESG helps the business to gain its growth and performance by protecting stakeholders interest such as shareholders, employees, customers, investors, society and government. The ESG is beneficial to corporate houses to manage risk, reputation of business, innovation, creativity and value creation in the long term growth of business. The aim of this paper to highlight on concept, relevance, importance, regulatory methods and application in business pertaining to ESG reporting.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, BRSR, Regulatory Mechanism, Reporting Strategy, Rating agencies

Suggested Citation:

Murugan, Dr. M Sakthivel and Sujatha, T. and Ganapathy, Dr. S., An Overview of Environmental Social and Governance System Reporting by Corporate Houses (June 16, 2023). Rabindra Bharati University Journal of Economics Vol: XXVII, No: 3, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4634543
 Not Available for Download
3 References
S Bodhanwala , R Bodhanwala
Do investors gain from sustainable investing. An empirical evidence from India
International Journal of business excellence , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 118 Posted: 2019
Busco , R Consolandi C Eccles , E Sofra
A preliminary analysis of SASB reporting, disclosure topics, financial relevance and the financial intensity of ESG materiality journal of applied corporate finance , volume 32 , p. 117 - 125 Posted: 2020
Sharma
P Pandy P and Dangwal R.C (2020) determinants of ESG disclosure. A study of Indian companies
international journal of corporate governance , p. 17 - 205
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies