Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Transition and Uncertainty: Firm-level Climate Change Exposure, ESG Profiles, and R&D Investment Worldwide

53 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 3 Mar 2025

Hai Hong Trinh

VinUniversity; Massey University

Date Written: November 16, 2023

Abstract

The study empirically investigates the contributions of global uncertainties to corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance in the mid-transition world. With the universal multidecade firm-level panel data, the study affirms the adverse impacts of global uncertainties on future corporate innovation (R&D expenditure) around the world. On the bright side, global uncertainties leverage firms to improve their sustainability outcomes with higher ESG performance. Regardless of the depression of global uncertainties in corporate investment, becoming greener is a must for firms in the era of climate change, when environmental policies have been much more stringent for climate action. Not just the overall R&D investments, the study highlights the roles of corporate environmental innovation in firms’ ESG and CSR practices, with conflicting theories and results that have not been resolved in the past literature. In the era of global warming, environmentally friendly, greener firms with higher ESG ratings are rewarded by lending institutions for their climate action with a lower corporate cost of debt. Drawing from legitimacy and institutional theories, lending institutions reward eco-friendly firms around the world for their ESG performance, specifically corporate environmental innovation. Our findings are robust, with a battery of fitted models and a wide range of proxies, including firm-level climate change exposures. The empirical outcomes are fundamentally critical to future studies on firms’ sustainability outcomes under global uncertainties worldwide.

Keywords: ESG, Climate Change, Environmental Innovation, Corporate Innovation, Global Uncertainty, Sustainable Finance

JEL Classification: G00, G1, G3, Q5.

Suggested Citation:

Trinh, Hai Hong, Climate Transition and Uncertainty: Firm-level Climate Change Exposure, ESG Profiles, and R&D Investment Worldwide (November 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4634515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4634515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
* , *
* , *
* , *
* , *
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,340
RANK
255,414
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies