Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Political Risk and CEO Compensation

31 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2023

Chunmi Jeon

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yunji Hwang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Seung Hun Han

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) - Department of Management Science

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines the impact of firm-level political risk (FLPR) on CEO compensation. Firm cash flow and CEO bargaining power are examined to ascertain whether they moderate this relationship. FLPR exposure is measured using a computational linguistic method to analyze manuscripts of firm earnings conference calls. The findings indicate that FLPR is negatively related to CEO compensation, but firm cash flow and CEO bargaining power positively moderate this relationship. The results are consistent with those of the endogeneity (propensity score matching analysis) and robustness tests, including alternative measures of FLPR and CEO compensation.

Keywords: political risk, firm-level, CEO compensation, cash flow, CEO bargaining power

Suggested Citation:

Jeon, Chunmi and Hwang, Yunji and Han, Seung Hun, Firm-Level Political Risk and CEO Compensation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4634787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4634787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
398,904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies