Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Transfer of CEO Turnover: Evidence from Firm-CEO Mismatch

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Nov 2023

Rosemond Desir

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Scott Seavey

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Maya Thevenot

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: November 16, 2023

Abstract

We investigate intra-industry information transfer to news of a significant corporate event, forced CEO turnover. Intra-industry information transfer occurs when announcements made by one or more firms in an industry contemporaneously affect stock prices of peer firms. We find results strongly consistent with information transfer in response to forced CEO turnover, as evidenced by significant cumulative abnormal returns for industry peer firms around the time of a turnover announcement. We further document that information transfer is stronger to turnovers that signal a firm-CEO mismatch prompted by changing industry conditions (Eisfeldt and Kuhnen 2013). Considering two moderating factors, we find weaker (stronger) information transfer when the CEO was replaced with an outsider (the announcing firm is an industry leader) providing additional evidence that forced CEO turnover at one firm can be indicative of industry-wide changes. Our study has important implications to financial analysts, investors, and boards of directors in assessing changing industry conditions in light of a forced CEO turnover at a peer firm.

Keywords: CEO turnover, Firm-CEO mismatch, Information transfer

JEL Classification: G13, G34, M51

Suggested Citation:

Desir, Rosemond and Seavey, Scott and Thevenot, Maya, Information Transfer of CEO Turnover: Evidence from Firm-CEO Mismatch (November 16, 2023). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4635046
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies