Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do banks retain depositors? The roles of deposit rates and loan performance reporting

54 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Yikang Jiang

National University of Singapore (NUS) - National University of Singapore (NUS), NUS Business School, Students

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Yibin Liu

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: November 16, 2023

Abstract

We identify a novel stylized fact: loan returns (loan loss provisions) have an inverse U-shaped (U-shaped) relation with deposit rates. We rationalize the findings with a parsimonious model capturing two countervailing forces: 1) the “deposit market disciplining” effect, banks increase deposit rates to retain deposits anticipating diminishing loan performance; 2) the “deposit market competition” effect, banks decrease deposit rates when they expect lower loan returns and are less willing to compete for deposits. These two forces combined predict a non-monotone relation consistent with the empirical pattern. Incorporating banks’ incentives to misreport loan performance in the model introduces a third “discretionary reporting” effect with two new predictions. First, we predict and confirm that reductions in deposit rates encourage under-provisioning for loan losses, shedding light on how funding costs affect banks’ financial reporting quality. Second, we show that banks with higher misreporting costs have a relatively more positive (negative) association between loan returns (losses) and deposit rates.

Keywords: deposit flow, deposit rates, loan loss provisions, disclosure

JEL Classification: G01,G21,G53,M41

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yikang and Lin, Yupeng and Liu, Yibin and Zhang, Gaoqing, How do banks retain depositors? The roles of deposit rates and loan performance reporting (November 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4635025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4635025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
V V Acharya , N Mora
A crisis of banks as liquidity providers
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic complexity in disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,093
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,519
RANK
46,203
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies