Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Disclosure and Firms’ Contemporaneous Dividend Payouts

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2023, Vol. 71, No. 3, p. 667-699

34 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2023

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Hong Fan

Saint Mary's University, Canada

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

The Canada emergency wage subsidy (CEWS) was designed as a bailout for employees who had been sidelined from employment during COVID-19. However, the eligibility rules for the wage subsidy suggest that it was not restricted to jobs that would otherwise have been lost. CEWS recipients also did not have to demonstrate the need for cash, so the cash received from the subsidy, based on a decline in monthly revenue, could be used for other purposes if annual revenues did not end up declining. This article examines characteristics of publicly listed firms that voluntarily disclosed the wage subsidy they received and whether such disclosure was associated with increases in contemporaneous dividend payouts. The authors hypothesize and show that firms may have been reluctant to disclose their CEWS if they increased their dividend payouts in the same year. This finding is moderated by firms’ cash holdings, reported losses, lower accounting earnings (compared to the prior year), and the extent to which firms managed their accounting earnings. The results hold under endogeneity tests using a two-stage least-square regression.

Keywords: Wage subsidies, Dividend payout, Corporate disclosure, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Mawani, Amin and Fan, Hong, COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Disclosure and Firms’ Contemporaneous Dividend Payouts (November 17, 2023). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2023, Vol. 71, No. 3, p. 667-699, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4636703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies