Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Network and Firm Value

23 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Shu Lin

Nanjing University - School of Business, Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

It is widely believed that a social network matters in Chinese firm value. A firm’s social network can be divided as two categories: the economic network that refers to relationships among businessmen, and the political network that suggests linkages between businesspersons and politicians and/or civil servants. Yet, there’s little study on how the social network affect firm value. Using social economic theories, this paper reveals role of the social network plays in firm value. The main findings are as following: Ceteris paribus, a core position in the economic network is of great help to improve firm value, due to the fact that economic network can promote sales growth. A core position in political network is also helpful as long as it assist a firm tries to secure government support. In addition, the anti-corruption campaign tends to weaken impact of the political network while strengthening that of the economic network. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the microeconomic mechanism in China.

Keywords: Social Network; Economic Network; Political Network; Firm Value; Anti-corruption

JEL Classification: B55; G32

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Shu, Social Network and Firm Value (November 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4636261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4636261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A R Radcliffe-Brown
Structure and Function in Primitive Society
Bian Yanjie
Source and Functions of Urbanites' Social Capital: A Network Approach
Social Science in China , issue 3 , p. 136 - 146 Posted: 2004
Cai Qingfeng , Guo Chunsong , Huang Kaisong
The Influence of Social Networks and Social Experience on Capital Markets: A Survey
Economic Perspectives , issue 2 , p. 126 - 140 Posted: 2016
Du Qingjun , Chen Jianbo , Yu Qiao
The Influence of Relation on Financing of None-SOEs
China Journal of Finance , issue 3 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies