Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of amendments to Rule 12b-2: evidence from XBRL-based reporting complexity

36 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Denis Lima e Alves

University of East Anglia (UEA) - Norwich Business School

Miles B. Gietzmann

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: November 19, 2023

Abstract

This study empirically evaluates the impact of changes made to the SEC’s definition of Smaller Reporting Companies (SRCs) in 2018. Using a novel measure of reporting complexity based on the structure of XBRL filings, the authors examine how the increased public float threshold for SRCs from $75 million to $250 million affected reporting behaviour. The analysis reveals that this reduction in mandatory reporting requirements was simultaneously associated with increased voluntary reporting complexity within the affected float range, particularly among SRCs that also classify as Accelerated filers. Unlike previous studies that focused on textual complexity, this study introduces a complexity measure that is based on the structure of the XBRL reporting system, and captures regulatory effects, business models, and accounting choices. The findings suggest that XBRL-based structural complexity captures important aspects of revised compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, shedding light on the relationship between reporting complexity and internal controls. The study’s methodology, based on established graph theoretical analysis of XBRL filings, provides insights into how companies organize their financial statements and adapt to regulatory changes within the context of their actual reporting systems. It allows us to model the interplay between regulatory complexity, business models, and companies’ reporting requirements and choices. This paper shows that a reduction in mandatory disclosure requirements can lead to firms increasing their voluntary disclosure. Overall, this research contributes with valuable insights into how the dynamics of reporting complexity is determined by companies, regulators, and investors, emphasizing the significance of structural complexity measures in understanding reporting behavior and decision-making processes.

Suggested Citation:

Lima e Alves, Denis and Gietzmann, Miles B. and Marques, Ana Cristina, Effects of amendments to Rule 12b-2: evidence from XBRL-based reporting complexity (November 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4637681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic Complexity in Disclosure
SSRN Journal Posted: 2021
J Bertomeu
Managers' Choice of Disclosure Complexity
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2023
R J Bloomfield
The "Incomplete Revelation Hypothesis" and Financial Reporting. Accounting Horizons 16 Posted: 2002
N C Brown , A A Huffman , S Cohen
Accounting Reporting Complexity and Non-GAAP Earnings Disclosure
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
630
RANK
640,233
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies