Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Reasons for Impact Materiality in EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting

European Business Law Review, 35(7), 2024, 925 - 946

32 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 21 Feb 2025

Félix E. Mezzanotte

Trinity College Dublin

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

The Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and the European Sustainability Reporting Standards have adhered to the principle of double materiality. This principle has two dimensions, namely financial and impact materiality, the latter being associated with a company’s obligation to report material information on the impacts of corporate activity on people and the environment. Concentrating on the impact materiality principle, this article identifies and discusses key reasons that justified its adoption. The first reason aims to foster the alignment of corporate actions with sustainable development as framed by the European Green Deal and by the Global Reporting Initiative. The second justification is found in the promotion of corporate accountability through sound corporate due diligence processes and effective impact management. Developing markets and products for sustainable investments is the third reason for the disclosure of impact-related information. The article turns to identify constraints to the success of these policy tenets including (a) distrust in markets due to greenwashing risk, (b) challenges posed by the wide discretionary powers of corporate officers in the evaluation of impact materiality, and (c) poor quality of impact-related data.

Keywords: corporate sustainability reporting, double materiality, impact materiality, sustainable finance, sustainable development, information disclosure, impact management, sustainable investments, ESG

JEL Classification: G10, G18, G28, K10, K23, K32, K42, O16, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Mezzanotte, Félix E., Examining the Reasons for Impact Materiality in EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting (March 20, 2024). European Business Law Review, 35(7), 2024, 925 - 946, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Ibid
IFRS S2 -Climate-Related Disclosures
Objective, para Posted: 2023-06
Esrs Dr N
Ibid , Also , Luzi Hans B Christensen , Christian Hail , Leuz
Mandatory CSR and sustainability reporting: economic analysis and literature review, 26 Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1221 - 1223 Posted: 2021
Sustainable Finance is an umbrella term that generally refers to private-sector financing for causes related to achieving environmentally or socially sustainable outcomes, such as those articulated in the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Regulation , volume 84 , issue 1
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,913
RANK
71,261
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies