Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Coverage of Employment Discrimination

58 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 17 Jan 2025

Aneesh Raghunandan

Yale School of Management

Devin M. Shanthikumar

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Elizabeth Tori

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 15, 2025

Abstract

We examine the extent, tone, and impact of media coverage of employment discrimination violations. For a comprehensive set of discrimination cases brought by both the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and private litigation, we manually identify news articles covering these cases and find that only 42% of violations receive news coverage. Firms with higher diversity prior to the violation announcement receive greater coverage, consistent with the media viewing violations by these firms as more newsworthy. Media coverage of discrimination appears informative to the market: the market response to violation announcements is significantly more negative for violations with higher coverage. This negative market response is concentrated in violations covered by left-leaning media and appears to reflect differences in dissemination audience rather than variation in coverage tone by outlets of different political leanings. Overall, our results highlight the media’s role in facilitating the investor response to discriminatory practices.

Keywords: discrimination, Violation Tracker, EEOC, ESG, workplace misconduct, media coverage

JEL Classification: J71, M14, M41,

Suggested Citation:

Raghunandan, Aneesh and Shanthikumar, Devin M. and Tori, Elizabeth, Media Coverage of Employment Discrimination (January 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4637209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory ESG disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2022
A Baker , D F Larcker , C Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Posted: 2022
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 Posted: 2020
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , C Zhu
Capital market effects of media synthesis and dissemination: Evidence from robo-journalism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,936
RANK
149,425
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies