Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Secular Decline in Private Firm Leverage

53 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Aymeric Bellon

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Finance Area

Erik Gilje

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Christine Dobridge

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Andrew Whitten

U.S. Department of the Treasury - Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 20, 2023

Abstract

Using firm-level administrative tax data, we document dramatic reductions in private leverage since the Global Financial Crisis, while leverage among public firms rose during this period. Changing firm characteristics are unable to account for this pattern. Younger and smaller private firms experience large declines in leverage. Reduced leverage among private firms is correlated with lower investment. The decline in private firm leverage and investment is strongly related to plausibly exogenous increases in local area bank capital requirements. Our findings suggest that banks' credit supply plays a prominent role in explaining the leverage pattern of private firms.

Suggested Citation:

Bellon, Aymeric and Gilje, Erik and Dobridge, Christine and Whitten, Andrew, The Secular Decline in Private Firm Leverage (November 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4638065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4638065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Heitor Almeida , Thomas Philippon
The risk-adjusted cost of financial distress
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 6 , p. 2557 - 2586 Posted: 2007
Ben S Bernanke , Mark Gertler , Simon Gilchrist
The financial accelerator in a quantitative business cycle framework
Handbook of Macroeconomics , volume 1 , p. 1341 - 1393 Posted: 1999
Greg Buchak , Gregor Matvos , Tomasz Piskorski , Amit Seru
Fintech, regulatory arbitrage, and the rise of shadow banks
Journal of financial economics , volume 130 , issue 3 , p. 453 - 483 Posted: 2018
Tetiana Davydiuk , Tatyana Marchuk , Samuel Rosen
Direct lenders in the US middle market Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
267,591
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies