Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Age, Firm Exit, and Zombification Amidst the Covid-19 Pandemic

41 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

KONGPHOP WONGKAEW

Waseda University

Yukiko Saito

早稲田大学; Waseda University - School of Political Science and Economics; Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (RIETI)

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on zombification, firm exit, and chief executive officer (CEO) succession, and examines how CEO age moderates these effects. Using the firm-level data of Japanese firms from 2013 to 2021, we discover that the prevalence of zombification increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, as firm performance deteriorated and financial leverage increased. However, the pandemic had a limited impact on firm exit. We also find that the impact of the pandemic on firms varied depending on the age of their CEOs. Firms led by younger CEOs were more likely to increase their long-term borrowing and less likely to exit the market. Conversely, firms led by older CEOs were more likely to exit voluntarily or experience CEO turnover, especially family-owned firms and those in peripheral

Keywords: Firm Exit, Zombification, CEO Age, Business Succession

Suggested Citation:

WONGKAEW, KONGPHOP and Saito, Yukiko, CEO Age, Firm Exit, and Zombification Amidst the Covid-19 Pandemic. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4640298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4640298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 1328
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis , S J Terry
COVID-induced economic uncertainty. NBER Working Papers 26983 Posted: 2020
R J Caballero , T Hoshi , A K Kashyap
Zombie lending and depressed restructuring in Japan
American Economic Review , volume 98 , p. 1943 - 1977 Posted: 2008
V M Carvalho , M Nirei , Y U Saito , A Tahbaz-Salehi
Supply chain disruptions: Evidence from the Great East Japan Earthquake
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 136 , p. 1255 - 1321 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
785,362
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies