Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Corruption Campaign and Corporate Finance

27 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2023

Shenghui Tong

Siena College

Hong Qian

Oakland University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

We review recent studies examining the association between corporate finance and the anti-corruption campaign in China. This review shows that this campaign has brought some positive changes in certain aspects of corporate finance, such as financing and investment policies, however, the impact on most other factors, such as firm performance and firm value, is either negative or ambiguous. In addition, the impact of this anti-corruption campaign on corporate finance and corporate governance differs between State-owned enterprises (SOEs) and non-SOEs. We suggest a list of corporate finance characteristics whose relationship with the anti-corruption campaign remains unexamined. The findings in this review may provide useful empirical evidence for other developing countries to set their anti-corruption policies which may benefit rather than weaken corporate finance efficiency.

Keywords: Anti-corruption, Corruption, Corporate Finance, China, Firm Performance

Suggested Citation:

Tong, Shenghui and Qian, Hong, Anti-Corruption Campaign and Corporate Finance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4641286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4641286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
T Aidt , J Dutta , V Sena
Governance regimes, corruption and growth: Theory and evidence
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 220 Posted: 2008
T Aidt
Corruption, institutions, and economic Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 25 , p. 271 - 291 Posted: 2009
J Bai , S Jayachandran , E Malesky , B Olken
Firm growth and corruption: Empirical evidence from Vietnam
The Economic Journal , volume 129 , p. 651 - 677 Posted: 2019
H Cai , H Fang , L Xu
Eat, drink, firms, government: An investigation of corruption from the entertainment and travel costs of Chinese firms
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 54 , p. 55 - 78 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,082
RANK
618,599
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies