Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taking a Sick Day: The Effect of Paid Sick Leave Mandates on Financial Reporting Outcomes

54 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Adam S. Koch

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Yi Liang

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: November 22, 2023

Abstract

Mandating paid sick leave in the U.S. is controversial because it benefits employees while imposing extra costs on businesses. At the same time, the benefits that can accrue to employers are not well documented. We examine U.S. regions’ staggered adoptions of paid sick leave mandates and predict that mandates will enhance financial reporting by boosting employee morale, reducing presenteeism, and hence improving the quality of rank-and-file employees’ inputs to the accounting system. We find that internal control material weaknesses and financial statement misstatements decrease after adopting paid sick leave mandates. Financial reporting improves more for firms that are less likely to offer voluntary paid sick leave policies, experience more employee injuries and illnesses, and have weaker audit committees. Paid sick leave mandates also increase the horizon and accuracy of managerial guidance, and decrease audit fees and audit lags.

Keywords: Paid sick leave, Rank and file employees, Internal controls, Material weakness, Misstatement, Managerial guidance, Audit fees

JEL Classification: J80, K31, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Koch, Adam S. and Liang, Yi, Taking a Sick Day: The Effect of Paid Sick Leave Mandates on Financial Reporting Outcomes (November 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4641353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4641353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Balance Better
Overview of Paid Sick Time Laws in the United States Posted: 2022-11
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
J L Abernathy , J P Klaus , L Le , A Masli
Does greater access to employees with information technology capability improve financial reporting quality? Forthcoming in Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Pauline Wu , Zhifang Zhang
CEO‐to‐Employee Pay Ratio and Audit Pricing
Corporate Governance: An International Review Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
252,662
1 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies