Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality Matters: How Human Capital of Interlocked Directors Improves Firm Performance

64 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2023

Mohammed Abdullah Al Mamun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Van Le

The University of Newcastle

Doowon Lee

University of Sydney

Abul Shamsuddin

University of Newcastle (Australia) - Newcastle Business School

Abstract

This study examines human capital of connected directors as a measure of interlocking quality and its impact on firm performance. Using US data from 2000 to 2016, we find that both the extent and quality of director interlocking have a significant positive impact on firm performance. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the monitoring function serves as an important channel through which director interlocking influences firm performance. Our findings are robust to alternative centrality measures of director interlocking and endogeneity concerns. This paper provides valuable insights for shareholders and nomination committee members when making decisions to appoint interlocked directors on the board.

Keywords: Director interlocking, social network, Human capital, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Al Mamun, Mohammed Abdullah and Le, Van and Lee, Doowon and Shamsuddin, Abul, Quality Matters: How Human Capital of Interlocked Directors Improves Firm Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4642683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4642683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
References
A Amin , L Chourou , S Kamal , M Malik , Y Zhao
It's who you know that counts: Board connectedness and CSR performance
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2020
L Baran
Director connectedness and firm value in S&P 500 Index reconstitutions
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 92 , p. 63 - 79 Posted: 2017
G S Becker
Investment in human capital: A theoretical analysis
Journal of political economy , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 9 - 49 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
512
RANK
914,805
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies