Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Environment Optimization and Corporate ESG Performance: Evidence from China Pilot Free Trade Zone

15 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2023

Chen Zhang

Capital University of Economics and Business

Jiansheng Li

Central University of Finance and Economics

Kefu Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Lihua Lang

Capital University of Economics and Business

Abstract

Taking China Pilot Free Trade Zone (PFTZ) as a new perspective of institutional environment optimization, this paper investigates its impact on corporate ESG performance. We find that the PFTZ positively enhances corporate ESG performance, which remains robust after various checks. The mechanism analysis shows that improving corporate environmental protection capacity and management efficiency are the main channels while strengthening labor protection and easing financial constraints can enhance the positive effect. Moreover, the positive effect of the PFTZ on corporate ESG performance is more pronounced in coastal regions, the service sector, and state-owned enterprises (SOEs).

Keywords: Institutional environment optimization, Corporate ESG performance, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Environmental protection capacity, Management efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Chen and Li, Jiansheng and Liu, Kefu and Lang, Lihua, Institutional Environment Optimization and Corporate ESG Performance: Evidence from China Pilot Free Trade Zone. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4642067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4642067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
T Aabo , I C Giorici
Do female CEOs matter for ESG scores?
Global Finance Journal , volume 56 Posted: 2023
V A Aivazian , Y Ge , J Qiu
Can corporatization improve the performance of state-owned enterprises even without privatization
Journal of corporate finance , volume 11 , issue 5 , p. 791 - 808 Posted: 2005
M Akbari , M E Azbari , M Chaijani , Y Cai , C H Pan , M Statman
Performance of the firms in a free-trade zone: The role of institutional factors and resources
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 591 - 609 Posted: 2016
K S Chan , V Q Dang , I K Yan , Y Chang , X F Qian , R Coase , S Drempetic , C Klein , B Zwergel
The influence of firm size on the ESG score: Corporate sustainability ratings under review
The American economic review , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 333 - 360 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
RANK
708,207
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies