Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Market Value the Green Credit Performance of Banks? Evidence from Bank Loan Announcements

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2024

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Yue (Rio) Wu

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Date Written: November 24, 2023

Abstract

Despite the key role played by banks in shifting the global economy toward sustainable development, little is known about how the integration of environmental considerations into their lending decisions affects their market valuation. Using a sample of announcements of bank loans issued by Chinese listed banks and an event study methodology, this study examines how the market values the green credit performance of banks. We find that banks with superior green credit performance have significantly higher market valuation upon loan announcements. Cross-sectional analyses show that the positive effect of banks' green credit performance is more pronounced when banks are less exposed to political pressures. This positive effect is also stronger when borrowers have strong environmental and social (ES) performance, provide ES disclosures, operate in industries that are not heavily polluting, have high institutional ownership, and are controlled by private shareholders. Finally, our path analysis shows that green credit increases banks' market valuation by improving the prospect of future cash flows and reducing credit risk for banks. Overall, we document that green credit is a value-enhancing practice for banks in emerging markets such as China, where legal institutions and environmental regulations may not be as developed as in more advanced markets.
Free share link (until 01/19/2024): https://authors.elsevier.com/a/1iAoB3AZQPZhur

Keywords: Green credit,Market valuation,Bank loan,Environmental and social performance,China

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Gary Gang and Wang, Kun Tracy and wu, yue, Does the Market Value the Green Credit Performance of Banks? Evidence from Bank Loan Announcements (November 24, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4643229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
A Abdel-Maksoud , W Cheffi , K Ghoudi
The mediating effect of shop-floor involvement on relations between advanced management accounting practices and operational non-financial performance indicators
The British Accounting Review , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 184 Posted: 2016
W Bailey , W Huang , Z Yang
Bank loans with Chinese characteristics: Some evidence on inside debt in a state-controlled banking system
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 1795 - 1830 Posted: 2011
Banktrack
Close the gap-benchmarking credit policies of international bank Posted: 2010
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
787
RANK
545,411
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies