Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UK Asset Owner Stewardship Review 2023: Understanding the Degree & Distribution of Asset Manager Voting Alignment

23 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Andreas G. F. Hoepner

Smurfit Graduate Business School, University College Dublin; European Commission - DG FISMA

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

Following the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) voting season, members of the UK Asset Owner Roundtable chaired by Faith Ward posed the question for academic review - were asset owners and asset managers (still) aligned in their voting? The aim of this Stewardship Review was defined as the need to understand how asset owners' long-term interests have been served by their managers when exercising their stewardship and proxy voting at major Oil and Gas companies within the global universe of the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI). Specifically, UK asset owners have been concerned that despite unequivocal warnings from the United Nations and the IPCC of the risks of delayed action on climate change, short-term interests of asset managers may be trumping long-term interests of pension funds. Delayed action on climate increases the chances of a disorderly climate transition and missing the goals of the Paris Agreement. This in turn increases the risks to pension funds' long-term financial sustainability and the ability of those funds to serve the interests of their members/beneficiaries. To address these review questions, we study three separate datasets. First, we study the actual votes cast by asset managers from 2015 to 2023 for TPI universe oil and gas companies and correlate them with the equal weighted average of asset owner voting instructions as contributed by the ten participating asset owners. This method allows us to define alignment as “voting like a UK asset owner” rather than voting for or against any specific resolution type (e.g., climate). To set a realistic threshold, we define “misalignment” itself as the correlation of the least correlated individual asset owner to the equal weighted asset owner average, which is 60%. Empirically, we observe misalignment between UK asset owners and asset managers to varying degrees. Specifically, misalignment is more pronounced (i) in recent years, (ii) for shareholder resolutions than for management resolutions, (iii) for issuers in the Americas compared with European issuers, (iv) and, on average, for non-participating than for participating asset managers. Second, we reviewed the voting rationales provided by asset owners, asset managers aligned with asset owners and asset managers misaligned with asset owners. This review revealed three insights: (a) Only very selected asset managers publicly reason like asset owners. (b) Some asset managers somehow see voting and ESG engagement as mutually exclusive and appear to fear the loss of access to management if they voted against management. (c) Among asset managers, there appears to be a substantial divergence as to their interpretation of shareholders’ and even society’s interests. Some asset managers are aligned with asset owners, while others have fundamentally different views that may be consistent with short term commercial interest but do not reflect scientific evidence. Third, we reviewed the ESG Engagement success across all relevant issuers, which revealed three different engagement process types. Type 1 is “textbook style” persistent, long duration, large scale engagement with considerable progress. Type 2 appears to be “quick fix style” engagements which are characterised by less consistency, shorter duration, and more mixed progress. Type 3 engagements are “jumping the bandwagon style” as they appear to target only firms that already have been improved by others.

Keywords: Asset Managers, Asset Owners, Engagement, ESG, Stewardship, Voting, Voting Rationales

JEL Classification: G34, O16, Q54, Q55, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Hoepner, Andreas G. F., UK Asset Owner Stewardship Review 2023: Understanding the Degree & Distribution of Asset Manager Voting Alignment (November 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4643377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4643377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
There was also a suggestion to at the roundtables to include smaller asset owners such as charities and endowments
Resource constraint asset managers are more likely to engage in "quick fix" engagement rather than "textbook" engagement simply as latter is more resource intense than former
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
209,480
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies