Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Informative Value in Key Audit Matters: The Importance of Dissimilar KAM Risk Descriptions

56 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023 Last revised: 25 Apr 2024

Emeline Deneuve

HEC Montreal - Department of Accounting Studies

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Date Written: April 23, 2024

Abstract

Despite substantial efforts worldwide over the last decade to mandate the disclosure of Key Audit Matters (KAMs), the debate over their informative content continues, with most archival studies finding that KAMs have no or low informative value. We complement the literature by providing granular analyses of KAM content. We examine the informative value for capital markets of differences in the wording of KAMs for the same topic. Using a sample of listed firms in the United Kingdom, we hypothesize and find that auditors’ KAM risk description disclosures are informative only if they simultaneously provide dissimilar information to both (a) the previous year and (b) industry peers. Our results are stronger when the firm is audited by an industry specialist, when investors face greater information asymmetries proxied by greater bid-ask spreads, and when there are more analysts following the firm. By providing evidence that temporal and cross-sectional dissimilarities in KAM communications provide useful information, this paper has practical implications for auditors and standard setters.

Keywords: key audit matters, investors’ reactions, cumulative absolute abnormal returns, KAM dissimilarity, risk disclosure, auditor disclosure, textual analysis

JEL Classification: M42, M48, G14

Suggested Citation:

Deneuve, Emeline and Filip, Andrei and Jeny, Anne, Detecting Informative Value in Key Audit Matters: The Importance of Dissimilar KAM Risk Descriptions (April 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4643764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4643764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A A A S Aasb
Auditing Standard ASA 701: Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor's Report Posted: 2015
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
Do Critical Audit Matters Provide Decision-Relevant Information to Investors? Evidence from Merger and Acquisition Announcements Posted: 2022
M Al-Mulla , M Bradbury
Auditor, Client, and Investor Consequences of the Enhanced Auditor's
Report. International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2022
E D Alves Júnior , F C Galdi
The informational relevance of key audit matters
Revista Contabilidade & Finanças , volume 31 , issue 82 , p. 67 - 83 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,201
RANK
139,743
3 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies