Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Value Through Corporate Social Responsibility: The Role of Foreign Institutional Investors in Chinese Listed Firms

Forthcoming, Journal of Empirical Finance

52 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2023 Last revised: 25 Apr 2025

Yunhe Yunhe

East China Normal University

Yu Liu

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Mihail K. Miletkov

University of New Hampshire

Tina Yang

University of South Florida - Muma College of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Abstract

This study examines the interplay between two major global trends – the growing role of foreign institutional investors (FIIs) due to financial liberalization and the rise of corporate social responsibility (CSR) as an investment ethos. We choose the setting of China, the world’s second-largest economy that has recently experienced substantial growth in foreign portfolio investment and increased its commitment to CSR. We document that CSR performance significantly influences the portfolio allocation decisions of certain types of FIIs. Crucially, our analysis reveals that firms with a higher level of ownership by FIIs are associated with a more positive relation between CSR performance and firm value. This finding is robust to endogeneity examinations, including quasi-natural experiments and instrumental variable estimations. The finding is stronger for non-state-owned enterprises, firms with higher customer awareness, firms with more foreign directors, and firms with more frequent corporate site visits from FIIs. Monitoring and advising are two likely channels through which FIIs enhance the CSR-value relation. Finally, we demonstrate that FIIs enhance firms’ ability to harness the power of CSR as a driver of innovation.

Keywords: Foreign Institutional Investors, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG), Firm Performance, Innovation, china

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yunhe and Liu, Yu and Miletkov, Mihail K. and Yang, Tina, Creating Value Through Corporate Social Responsibility: The Role of Foreign Institutional Investors in Chinese Listed Firms. Forthcoming, Journal of Empirical Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4644142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4644142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
V V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R D Banker , R Mashruwala
The moderating role of competition in the relationship between nonfinancial measures and future financial performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 763 - 793 Posted: 2007
M L Barnett
Stakeholder Influence Capacity and the Variability of Financial Returns to Corporate Social Responsibility
The Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 794 - 816 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
644,694
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies