Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy, Firm Performance and ESG Disclosure: a study of Indian Firms

19 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Ravinder Singh

Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

Sustainability of firms growing concern for investors, practitioners and managers of companies. Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) score is the mechanism through which sustainability of firms is measured. This paper examines whether the firm’s dividend policy and firm’s performance is associated with ESG disclosure score for a sample of NSE ESG 100 Index from 2013 to 2021 with data from the Thomson Reuters Eikon database and CMIE (Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy). Rigorous statistical methods have been used to evaluate the relationship using pooled, fixed effects and random effects models for panel data. Findings indicate that ESG score has a significant and considerable impact on dividend policy and business performance. The findings have practical implications for corporate managers, academicians, investors and policymakers.

Keywords: Sustainability, Dividend Policy, Firm Performance, Tobin’s Q, ESG Disclosure score

JEL Classification: G3, G34, G35, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Ravinder, Dividend Policy, Firm Performance and ESG Disclosure: a study of Indian Firms (October 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4644024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4644024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Adams , J Bessant , S Jeanrenaud , P Overy , D Denyer
Innovating for sustainability: a systematic review of the body of knowledge Posted: 2012
P Aggarwal
Impact of sustainability performance of a company on its financial performance: A study of listed Indian companies
Global Journal of Management and Business Research (C: Finance) Posted: 2013
G Aras , D Crowther
Governance and sustainability: An investigation into the relationship between corporate governance and corporate sustainability Posted: 2008
M Baker , J Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
The Journal of finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
176,588
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies