Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Impact Accounting and Utilization of Logic-Model in Corporate Strategy ～Proposals for new management methods for impact-oriented corporate management and the realization of a sustainable society~

16 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2023

Reona Sekino

IMPACTLAKE

Toshiyuki Imamura

Nomura Holdings, Inc. (NHI) - Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. (NAM)

Yumiko Miwa

Meiji University

Date Written: November 27, 2023

Abstract

This article proposes a method of impact management for companies to realize both economic and social values. After discussing the existing methods for impact management, the article focuses on practical issues and investor engagement in impact management by companies. This article also makes recommendations on practical methods based on the current situation and issues. Specifically, this article proposes a method that integrates an Impact-Weighted Accounts framework that can quantify impact in a generalized format and a Logic Model that can visualize the ripple effects of corporate activities and clarify business strategies and value creation stories, thereby making it possible for stakeholders to evaluate impact. In addition, this article makes sample analysis to discuss the usefulness and challenges of the methodology.

Keywords: Impact, ESG, Sustainability

JEL Classification: M10,M40

Suggested Citation:

Sekino, Reona and Imamura, Toshiyuki and Miwa, Yumiko, The Evolution of Impact Accounting and Utilization of Logic-Model in Corporate Strategy ～Proposals for new management methods for impact-oriented corporate management and the realization of a sustainable society~ (November 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4645148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4645148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
704
RANK
448,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies