Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UN Blue and Firms’ CSR Communications: Firms’ Choice of Global Corporate Responsibility Frameworks and the Legitimacy of International Organizations

37 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2023

Adam William Chalmers

University of Edinburgh

Robyn Klingler-Vidra

King’s Business School, King’s College London

Date Written: November 28, 2023

Abstract

The past decades have seen a veritable explosion of global corporate responsibility (GCR) frameworks, which shape firms’ corporate social responsibility efforts. As widespread coverage of COP26 in Glasgow underscored, there is an increasing expectation that such frameworks steer business towards sustainability. The logic being that GCRs function as blueprints, guidelines, and standards for firms to follow, including what they measure. However, recent research suggests that the proliferation of GCRs is detracting from firms’ corporate responsibility performance, as they cause confusion about what to measure, and the expanded menu offers increased opportunities for greenwashing. At the same time, there is scant understanding of firms’ choice of which, and how many, GCR frameworks they engage. In this paper, we extend organizational legitimacy theory to offer a novel explanation for firms’ choices amongst a multitude of existing GCR frameworks. These choices, we argue are shaped by two main factors: (1) firms’ efforts to manage their public reputations in the face of CSR-related reputational risks, and (2) the visibility and legitimacy of GCR issuers and their frameworks. We measure GCR framework choice by employing novel methods in natural language processing (NLP) to assess GCR text-reuse: the extent to which firms mention GCR issuers and use text from GCR frameworks in their own communications, reports, and sustainability strategy documents. Our analysis draws on a novel database that brings together (1) 392 individual frameworks issued by 40 GCR actors for the period 1993-2021 and (2) a corpus comprising 4,025 CSR communications issued by 320 firms for the period 1997-2021. We find that the “UN blue” – as the UN brand is commonly referred – is perceived as the most legitimate, with the text of the UNGC frameworks and the names of various UN agencies most adorning the CSR communications.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, CSR, corporate social performance, IO legitimacy, Natural Language Processing

Suggested Citation:

Chalmers, Adam William and Klingler-Vidra, Robyn, UN Blue and Firms’ CSR Communications: Firms’ Choice of Global Corporate Responsibility Frameworks and the Legitimacy of International Organizations (November 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4646937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4646937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
M Alagappa
Political legitimacy in Southeast Asia: the quest for moral authority Posted: 1995
R Barkemeyer
Legitimacy as a Key Driver and Determinant of CSR in Developing Countries. Paper for the 2007 Marie Curie Summer School on Earth Systems Governance Posted: 2007
S Bear , N Rahman , C Post
The Impact of Board Diversity and Gender Composition on Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Reputation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2010
D Berliner , A Prakash
Public Authority and Private Rules: How Domestic Regulatory Institutions Shape the Adoption of Global Private Regimes
International Studies Quarterly , volume 58 , p. 792 - 803 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
RANK
914,805
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies