Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hallmarks of integrated thinking

The British Accounting Review (2023), doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2023.101281.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

52 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Ruth Dimes

University of Auckland Business School

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Integrated Thinking, the management approach associated with Integrated Reporting, has been hailed as a way of improving organisational decision-making and internal communication, leading to sustainable value creation. Yet Integrated Thinking remains poorly defined and understood. By analysing and synthesising the findings from an emerging body of case study evidence, this paper brings new theoretical insights into how Integrated Thinking is conceptualised and practised and its unique relationship with Integrated Reporting. We reveal Integrated Thinking to bring considerable tension to organisations as managers attempt to adapt to conflicting stakeholder priorities. Organisations which manage this tension and experience some success with Integrated Thinking typically exhibit four ‘hallmarks’, namely: 1) a deliberate drive by the board and CEO to encourage Integrated Thinking, 2) an Integrated Strategy developed through extensive stakeholder engagement and understanding of value creation, 3) the creation, or enhancement, of an organisational culture of trust and collaboration, and 4) the development of Integrated Intelligence, comprising integrated Performance Management Systems (PMS) and the use of multi-functional teams for decision-making. We present a new conceptual framework of Integrated Thinking in practice, reflect on its relationship with developments in sustainable management practices more broadly and propose several avenues for future research. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2023.101281.

Keywords: Integrated Thinking, Integrated Reporting, Connectivity, Sustainability Reporting, Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Dimes, Ruth and de Villiers, Charl, Hallmarks of integrated thinking ( 2023). The British Accounting Review (2023), doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2023.101281., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4647510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
158 References
C Adams
The International Integrated Reporting Council: A call to action
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 27 , p. 23 - 28 Posted: 2015
C Adams
Conceptualising the contemporary corporate value creation process
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 906 - 931 Posted: 2017
S Adams , R Simnett
Integrated Reporting: An Opportunity for Australia's Notfor-Profit Sector
Australian Accounting Review , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 292 - 301 Posted: 2011
A Akbas , A Coskun , S Demirkan , O Karamustafa
Internal change mechanism of integrated reporting: A field study
Sustainability , issue 23 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
649
RANK
848,823
158 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies