Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Investment: Evidence from Mergers and Acquisitions

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Yue (Rio) Wu

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

While corporate social responsibility (CSR) has played an increasingly important role in corporate decision-making, the role of CSR disclosure in a firm’s investment activities remains poorly understood. This study investigates the impact of CSR disclosure on mergers and acquisitions (M&As), which are pivotal investment activities. We find that firms disclosing voluntary CSR reports experience significantly stronger market reactions to M&A announcements than those that do not disclose such reports. Specifically, acquisitions by voluntary CSR disclosers achieve 1.2% higher returns upon acquisition announcements, leading to a substantial increase in shareholder value. Our findings are consistent across a series of robustness tests. Additional analyses suggest that the positive market reactions are especially tied to voluntary disclosures concerning the protection of employees and customers, and that the quality and financial materiality of voluntary CSR disclosures amplify positive market responses. We also find that voluntary CSR disclosers exhibit better long-term post-acquisition market and operational performance. Collectively, our findings suggest that voluntary CSR disclosures bolster acquisition returns by mitigating stakeholder resistance. Additionally, by leveraging the unique conditional CSR disclosure regulation in China and using a staggered DID design, we observe a diminished market reaction for acquirers following mandatory CSR disclosures. Overall, this research provides new insights into the contrasting effects of voluntary and mandatory CSR disclosures, emphasizing the vital role of effective stakeholder CSR communication in the success of M&As.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Acquisition, Investment, Market reaction, China

JEL Classification: M14, G34, G14, O16

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Kun Tracy and wu, yue, Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting and Investment: Evidence from Mergers and Acquisitions (November 1, 2023). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4648295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Inmaculada Bel‐Oms , Alfredo J. Grau‐Grau , Janny Núñez‐Almonte
The Impact of Board Gender Diversity Commitment on Firm Performance Moderated by Board Characteristics: Evidence From Sustainable European Firms and Financial Orientation
Business Strategy & Development , volume 7 , issue 4 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Man Yuan He , Qing Hui
Behind the Curtain: Linking CSR Disclosure to Internal Control in Chinese Firms
FRL-D-24-01454 · 44 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yongsi He , Albert Tsang , Shuo Yan
Navigating ESG Complexity: Impact of Information Sources on Analyst Forecast Accuracy
JCAE-D-24-86 · 43 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 50
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,176
RANK
248,063
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies