Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond the Disaster Zone: How Disruptive Climate Events Shape EPA Oversight and Firm Behavior

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-202

72 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Grace Fan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Trung Nguyen

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Xi Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine how experiences with disruptive climate events impact the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) monitoring activities and subsequent firm behaviors. Using plausibly exogenous variation in the exposure of EPA regional offices to major hurricanes, we find that exposed EPA regulators increase their monitoring efforts, measured by both inspection frequency and length, at facilities located in their jurisdictions but outside the disaster zone. This effect diminishes over time and is stronger for regulators located closer to the disaster area or experiencing the disaster for the first time. Importantly, the heightened regulatory monitoring following disasters has real effects on regulated facilities–they face more enforcement charges, reduce pollution, and increase voluntary environmental disclosure. Moreover, affected firms shift pollution from facilities overseen by disaster-exposed EPA regional offices to other facilities. Our findings highlight the role of personal experience in shaping regulators’ monitoring activities and their subsequent effects on firms.

Keywords: Regulatory monitoring, Personal experience, Firm pollution, Environmental disclosure, EPA

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Grace and Nguyen, Trung and Wu, Xi, Beyond the Disaster Zone: How Disruptive Climate Events Shape EPA Oversight and Firm Behavior (November 30, 2023). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-202, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4648898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Acemoglu , M A Dahleh , I Lobel , A Ozdaglar
Bayesian learning in social networks
Review of Economic Studies , volume 78 , p. 1201 - 1236 Posted: 2011
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
S Alok , N Kumar , R Wermers
Do fund managers misestimate climatic disaster risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , p. 1146 - 1183 Posted: 2020
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
RANK
317,057
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies