Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specialist Directors

41 Yale Journal on Regulation 652 (2024)

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 742/2023

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1790

71 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023 Last revised: 13 Feb 2024

Roy Shapira

Stigler Center, University of Chicago Booth School of Business; ECGI; Reichman University

Yaron Nili

Duke University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

What determines the effectiveness of corporate boards? Corporate legal scholars usually approach this question by focusing on directors’ incentives, such as counting how many directors are independent or whether the roles of the CEO and Chair are separated. Yet on the ground, the focus has been shifting to directors’ skill sets and experience. Investors, regulators, and courts are now pressuring companies to appoint directors with specific types of expertise. In response, more and more companies are adding what we term “specialist directors”: a DEI director, a climate director, a cyber director, and so on. These changes in board composition could reshape corporate governance and impact broader societal issues such as data privacy and environmental degradation. This Article examines the ongoing shift in board expertise and makes the following three contributions.

First, the Article presents evidence on the scope and magnitude of the changes in board expertise. We hand-collect and hand-code data from the proxy statements of S&P 500 (large cap) and S&P 600 (small cap) companies over the 2016–2022 period. We find that over the past few years companies have not only significantly increased their emphasis on expertise disclosure, but also added hundreds of directors with narrower, ESG-related expertise.

Second, the Article analyzes how these shifts in board expertise could affect corporate behavior, and whether they are likely to prove overall desirable from a societal perspective. It is intuitive to think of board expertise as an unalloyed good. But we merge insights from interviews with nomination committee members with insights from the literature on group decision-making, to highlight five realistic concerns arising from the current trend. The injection of new, narrow types of expertise could distort board dynamics, create “authority bias,” overly increase the size of boards, hinder efforts to promote board diversity, and result in “board washing” whereby human capital disclosure camouflages the company’s actual behavior.

Finally, the Article generates concrete policy implications. For regulators, the main lessons concern rethinking the desirability of legal intervention and ensuring more credible and comparable expertise disclosure. For courts, the main lessons revolve around how to assess board behavior in oversight-duty litigation and what to consider when approving derivative settlements.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Law, Directors, ESG, Compliance, Oversight Duties, Caremark, Board Effectiveness, Board Diversity, Director Independence, Director Expertise, Cybersecurity, Corporate Social Responsibility, Securities Regulation,

JEL Classification: K22, G34, G38, L21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Shapira, Roy and Nili, Yaron,
Specialist Directors
(November 30, 2023). 41 Yale Journal on Regulation 652 (2024), European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 742/2023, Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1790, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
E G See , Niraj Chokshi
House Report Condemns Boeing and F.A.A. in 737 Max Disasters Posted: 2020-03-01
Chris Isidore
Boeing's 737 Max Debacle Could Be the Most Expensive Corporate Blunder Ever Posted: 2020-11-17
*36 (Del. Ch , volume 4059934 Posted: 2019
E G See , Gail Weinstein , Steven Epstein , & Mark , H Lucas
Boeing: Rejecting Early Dismissal of Claims against Directors for Inadequate Risk Oversight
HARV. L. SCH. F. ON CORP
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,247
RANK
30,340
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies