Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Facial Trustworthiness and CEO Turnover

40 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Ly Vi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Huy Xuan Dang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Thanh Nam Vu

University of Birmingham

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of facial trustworthiness on the turnover of Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) and its moderating role in the relationship between firm performance and CEO turnover. We employ a unique dataset comprising headshots of male CEOs in US listed firms from 2010 to 2019 and develop a machine learning-based facial landmark detector to construct a composite facial trustworthiness index. Our results show that CEO’s facial trustworthiness is negatively associated with executive turnover. We also find that facial trustworthiness strongly influences the link between firm performance and CEO turnover. Well-performing executives have a lower risk of being dismissed from their positions and the dismissal risk is even lower for highly trusted CEOs. Conversely, underperforming CEOs are more likely to be dismissed and the dismissal probability is greater for highly trusted CEOs.

Keywords: facial trustworthiness, CEO turnover, firm performance, machine learning, facial landmark detector

Suggested Citation:

Vi, Ly and Dang, Huy Xuan and Vu, Thanh Nam, Facial Trustworthiness and CEO Turnover. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4649108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
557
RANK
682,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies