Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Judicial System Reform and Corporate Financial Litigation Risk: A Quasi-Natural Experiment in China

20 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Jieji Lai

Guizhou University of Finance and Economics

Shiyang Hu

Chongqing University - School of Economics and Business Admininstration

Abstract

Using the unique litigation data disclosed by Chinese listed companies, we examine the impact of bankruptcy judicial system reform on corporate financial litigation risks. The results show that after reform of the bankruptcy judicial system, the corporate risk of being sued in financial disputes is significantly reduced. Further research shows that when the uncertainty of economic policy is stronger and the market competition faced by corporations is more intense, the effect of bankruptcy judicial system reform on reducing the corporate financial litigation risk is better. We also find that the bankruptcy reform forces corporations to implement conservative business strategies.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Judicial system reform, Corporate financial litigation risk

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Jieji and Hu, Shiyang, Bankruptcy Judicial System Reform and Corporate Financial Litigation Risk: A Quasi-Natural Experiment in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4649065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy Codes and Innovation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
J Aharony , C Liu , A Yawson
Corporate litigation and executive turnover
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 36 , p. 268 - 292 Posted: 2015
M P Arena
Corporate litigation and debt
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 215 Posted: 2018
J Armour , D Cumming
Bankruptcy Law and Entrepreneurship. American Law and Economics Review , volume 10 , p. 303 - 350 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
833,930
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies