Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality Control Rigidity and Audit Outcomes

54 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2023 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Jennifer McCallen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Sarah B. Stuber

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: April 16, 2024

Abstract

While audit firms’ quality control systems are critical to the execution of consistent, high-quality audits, these systems are largely unobservable. We overcome this observability challenge by relying on linguistic patterns indicating template use in CAM disclosures to proxy for firms’ quality control system rigidity, supporting its validity with a survey of practicing auditors. We observe variation in our proxy for quality control rigidity across audit firms, and that our quality control rigidity measures are negatively associated with both CAM-specific and non-CAM PCAOB inspection findings. We also provide evidence that quality control rigidity is associated with higher quality audits of internal controls but lower quality audits of complex estimates, consistent with theory and experimental research suggesting that the effectiveness of a rigid system varies with task uncertainty. Our findings provide important insight into the design and effectiveness of quality control systems.

Keywords: audit, quality control, Critical Audit Matter disclosure, rigidity, template use, audit quality, task uncertainty, fair value estimates, internal controls, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

McCallen, Jennifer and Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Stuber, Sarah, Quality Control Rigidity and Audit Outcomes (April 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4649937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
SQMS No. 1: A Firm's System of Quality Management Posted: 2022
D Aobdia
The Economic Consequences of Audit Firms' Quality Control System Deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2801 - 3294 Posted: 2020
A A Austin , J S Hammersley , M A Ricci
Improving Auditors' Consideration of Evidence Contradicting Management's Estimate Assumptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 696 - 716 Posted: 2020
E M Bamber , D Snowball , R M Tubbs
Audit Structure and its Relation to Role Conflict and Role Ambiguity: An Empirical Investigation , volume 64 , p. 285 - 299 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
481,162
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies