Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Myopia and Corporate ESG Performance

24 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2023

zhangmei fan

Xiamen University

Ying Chen

South China Normal University

Yifan Mo

Xiamen University

Abstract

Management is the helmsman of corporate strategy and plays a leading role in the decision-making of corporate sustainable development. This paper uses the index of manager myopia constructed by text analysis to investigate its impact on corporate ESG performance. The conclusion of this paper shows that the management myopia significantly reduces the ESG performance of enterprises, and the results remain robust after a series of robustness tests. Further research finds that the negative effects of management myopia on corporate ESG are mitigated by internal governance level of enterprises and external supervision pressure, but strengthened by fierce product market competition. This paper enriches the research on the influencing factors of corporate ESG, and provides reference value for promoting the sustainable development practice of enterprises.

Keywords: myopia, ESG, constructed level theory

Suggested Citation:

fan, zhangmei and Chen, Ying and Mo, Yifan, Management Myopia and Corporate ESG Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4649210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
783
RANK
446,506
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies