Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Carrot and the Stick: Bank Bailouts and the Disciplining Role of Board Appointments

Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2023/16

Forthcoming, American Economic Journal: Policy

80 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2023

Christian Mücke

ESCP Business School; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Loriana Pelizzon

Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; Ca Foscari University of Venice - Dipartimento di Economia

Vincenzo Pezone

Goethe University Frankfurt

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 14, 2023

Abstract

We empirically examine the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) used by the US government to bail out distressed banks and its implications for regulatory policy. We find strong evidence that a feature of the CPP - the government's ability to appoint independent directors on the board of an assisted bank that missed six dividend payments to Treasury - had a significant effect on bank behavior. Banks were averse to these appointments - the empirical distribution of missed payments exhibits a sharp discontinuity at five. Director appointments by Treasury were associated with improved bank performance and lower CEO pay. Political connections did not affect appointment decisions.

Keywords: Bank Bailout, TARP, Capital Purchase Program, Dividend Payments, Board Appointments, Bank Recapitalization

JEL Classification: G01, G2, G28, G38, H81

Suggested Citation:

Mücke, Christian and Pelizzon, Loriana and Pezone, Vincenzo and Thakor, Anjan V., The Carrot and the Stick: Bank Bailouts and the Disciplining Role of Board Appointments (November 14, 2023). Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2023/16, Forthcoming, American Economic Journal: Policy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4650724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Viral V Acharya , Anjan V Thakor
The Dark Side of Liquidity Creation: Leverage and Systemic Risk
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 28 , p. 4 - 21 Posted: 2016
Viral V Acharya , Tanju Yorulmazer
Too many to fail-An analysis of Time-inconsistency in Bank Closure Policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2007
Acharya , V Viral , Irvind Gujral , Nirupama Kulkarni , Hyun Song Shin
Dividends and Bank Capital in the Financial Crisis of 2007-2009
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2011
Sumit Agarwal , David Lucca , Amit Seru , Francesco Trebbi
Inconsistent Regulators: Evidence from Banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
787
RANK
99,108
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies