Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise's Choice of Technology M&A: Absorbing the Strong or Favoring the Weak?—— from the Perspective of Technological Gap between Enterprises

23 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2023

Jia Lv

Tianjin University

Dayong Liu

Tianjin University

Abstract

This paper mainly examines the factors that affect the decision of technology M&A between enterprises, especially the influence of the technology quantity gap and technology value gap on the choice of technology M&A. Using five-year period of relevant data from 2013 to 2017, The empirical research shows that the smaller the technology quantity gap between enterprises, the greater the motivation of technology M&A; The smaller the technological value gap between enterprises, the greater the motivation of technological M&A. This shows that in the process of M&A between listed companies and small enterprises, large listed companies prefer small enterprises with strong resources, that is, compared with weak companies, listed companies are more inclined to choose small enterprises with stronger technical capabilities and  not far behind them.

Keywords: Technological M&A, Technological Gap, Value Distance, Quantitative Distance, Integration

Suggested Citation:

Lv, Jia and Liu, Dayong, Enterprise's Choice of Technology M&A: Absorbing the Strong or Favoring the Weak?—— from the Perspective of Technological Gap between Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4650220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Bai
Mergers and Acquisitions based on knowledge and Technology
J. Economic Economics & Weft , issue 50 , p. 52 - 54 Posted: 2002
M Entezarkheir , S Moshiri
Mergers and Innovation: Evidence from a Panel of US Firms
J. Economics of Innovation & New Technology , volume 27 , issue 1-2 , p. 132 - 153 Posted: 2018
M Entezarkheir , S Moshiri
Is Innovation a Factor in Merger Decisions? Evidence from a Panel of U.S. Firms
J. Empirical Economics , volume 57 , issue 5 , p. 1783 - 1809 Posted: 2019
J J Fu
Science of Technological Innovation , p. 1 - 417 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies