Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Higher Purpose, Employees and the Firm

Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2023/17

47 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2023

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper presents a theory of organizational higher purpose in which the firm’s owner and employee care about a purpose that transcends the firm’s business goals but guides its decisions. This purpose sacrifices profits in some states, but serves a greater good that generates positive utility for the owner and employee. Some firms pursuing a purpose insure their employees against layoffs in bad economic states. They may pay their employees more or less than firms that do not offer such insurance. Whether purpose-driven firms that insure their employees against layoffs in bad economic states pay them more or less than firms that do not depends on the utility the owner derives from the purpose relative to the utility the employee derives. External financing becomes more expensive the less outside shareholders care about the purpose.

Keywords: organizational higher purpose, profits, layoff insurance

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Anjan V., Higher Purpose, Employees and the Firm (November 15, 2023). Olin Business School Center for Finance & Accounting Research Paper No. 2023/17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4650737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
V Acharya , S Myers , R Rajan
The internal governance of firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
R Aguilera
Corporate purpose in comparative perspective: The role of governance
Strategy Science , volume 8 , p. 193 - 201 Posted: 2023
F Allen , M Qian , J Xie
Implicit benefits and financing
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 52 Posted: 2022
C Azariadis
Implicit contacts and unemployment equilibria
Journal of Political Economy , volume 83 , p. 1183 - 1202 Posted: 1975
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
218,186
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies