Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-border acquisition performance insights from predictive modeling

Acquisitions and Corporate Strategy: Alliances, Performance, and Divestment, 157-176. DOI: 10.4324/9781003188308-10.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Camilla Jensen

Roskilde University

Peter Zamborsky

University of Auckland Business School

David R. King

U.S. Air Force Academy - Department of Mangement

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Cross-border acquisitions (CBA) are a common tool of multinational firms, but what drives CBA performance remains inconclusive. We aggregate research on CBA performance to identify impacts of cultural distance and home and host country effects using a relatively new approach, predictive modeling, to classify research to identify patterns with machine learning. Predictive modeling enables considering effects not traditionally captured by meta-analysis and it offers different interpretations. We find an overall positive impact of cultural distance on CBA performance. However, we also find important host and home country effects, and the home country setting of acquirers may be as or more important than host and distance effects. As a result, there are questions surrounding the usefulness of cultural distance, and CBA research needs to consider home country effects. Full chapter available at DOI: 10.4324/9781003188308-10.

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Camilla and Zamborsky, Peter and King, David R., Cross-border acquisition performance insights from predictive modeling ( 2022). Acquisitions and Corporate Strategy: Alliances, Performance, and Divestment, 157-176. DOI: 10.4324/9781003188308-10., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650341
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,058
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies