Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Academic directors and corporate social responsibility: empirical evidence from China

Posted: 5 Dec 2023

Yue Cheng

Cranfield University - School of Management

Sunil S. Poshakwale

Cranfield University - School of Management

Wasim Ahmad

Cranfield University - School of Management

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

Academic directors are considered an important resource and consequently, their demand to serve on corporate boards is rapidly growing. Previous research suggests that over 70% of Chinese listed companies have at least one academic independent director. In the paper, we investigate whether academic directors influence Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance of firms in China. Using a large sample of hand-collected data of listed companies over 2010 to 2019, we find a significant positive association between academic directors and CSR performance. Specifically, academic directors with high quality of education (i.e., graduates of prestigious universities) and less specialized experience have a greater impact on firms’ CSR performance. We find that directors with pure academic careers and/or serving on audit committees make a significant difference. We also show that the positive impact of academic directors on CSR performance is more pronounced for Non-State-Owned Enterprises (Non-SOEs) and firms in high-tech industries. Overall, our findings provide strong evidence that academic directors play a key part in improving the CSR performance of Chinese firms. Our results are robust to the alternative CSR performance measures and after controlling for endogeneity. Our findings suggest that academic directors provide valuable resources as well as effective monitoring of managerial decisions. Evidence reported in the paper has policy implications for corporate governance practices and regulators. Academic directors can encourage greater stakeholder engagements making firms more socially responsible and sustainable.

Keywords: Academic directors, CSR performance, Director functions, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M14

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Yue and Poshakwale, Sunil S. and Ahmad, Wasim, Academic directors and corporate social responsibility: empirical evidence from China (December 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4650160
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies