Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and Accounting Profession

Babcock Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol 1, No 1 April 2021 pp. 1-26

11 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2024

Jerry Kwarbai

Babcock University

Date Written: April 3, 2021

Abstract

The study investigated the effect of artificial intelligence and accounting profession in Nigeria. The study employed a field survey research design. The population of this study are accountants in Nigeria considering the Big Four which include KPMG, Deloitte, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst and Young. The study found that Artificial Intelligence had significant accounting profession in Nigeria. The study recommended that accounting software of assurance firm should learn from previous tagging decisions that are typically made according to rules that the accountant is aware of and also integrate artificial intelligence into their system of sampling in case an audit is required, it will be possible to audit all the data rather than merely a sampling.

Keywords: Keywords- Accounting Profession, Artificial Intelligence, Anomalous Detection, Data Analytics, Anomalous Detection

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Kwarbai, Jerry Danjuma, Artificial Intelligence and Accounting Profession (April 3, 2021). Babcock Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol 1, No 1 April 2021 pp. 1-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4651939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4651939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Alchian , H Demstez
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
America Economic , volume 62 Posted: 1972
A A Baldwin , C E Brown , B S Trinkle
Opportunities for artificial intelligence development in the accounting domain: the case for auditing
Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and management Posted: 2006
Cgma
Re-inventing finance for a digital world Posted: 2019
S Dilek , H Çakır , M Aydın
Applications of artificial intelligence techniques to combating cyber-crimes: A review
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence & Applications Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
119,423
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies