Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interplay between Accounting Conservatism, Auditing Conservatism and Quality of Earnings in Oman

International Journal of Economics, Management and Accounting

Posted: 12 Dec 2023

Mawih Kareem Al Ani

Dhofar University

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract


This paper examines the impact of accounting conservatism and auditing conservatism on earnings quality. Four proxies were used to measure earnings quality; persistence, accrual quality, value relevance and smoothness.
We use the published annual reports of all the listed firms in the Muscat Securities Market (MSM) for the 6-year period from 2012-2017 to assess the interplay between accounting conservatism, auditing conservatism and earnings quality.
The result reveals a positive and significant effect of auditing conservatism on earnings quality but no significant effect of accounting conservatism on earnings quality in terms of smoothness of earnings. This implies users tend to rely on auditors’ reports when assessing earnings quality.
Our results are robust to the inclusion of four control variables; size of the firm, risk, audit firm size and industry type, the use of an additional analysis of one special case of auditing conservatism and earnings quality, and tests of potential relationship between auditing conservatism.
The findings have implications to regulators when formulating standards and guidelines, auditors in the course of an audit, investors in reviewing the financial statements, and preparers when preparing their financial reports.
The study recommends that the Omani stockholders as well as international stockholders rely heavily on auditing conservatism which means that stockholders are prepared to receive modified audit reports.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism, Auditing conservatism, Quality of earnings, Oman, Emerging economy

JEL Classification: M21, M41, M42, G31

Suggested Citation:

Al Ani, Mawih Kareem and Chong, H Gin, Interplay between Accounting Conservatism, Auditing Conservatism and Quality of Earnings in Oman (January 1, 2021). International Journal of Economics, Management and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4651979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3808383
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies