Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Transactions Impact on Financial Performance of Banking With Reference to Select Banks – A Connectivity Approach

Journal of Xi'an University of Architecture & Technology ISSN No : 1006-7930 Volume XV, Issue 9, 2023 Page No: 438

13 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2024

Dr Bevara Govindu

Independent

Dr Arun Kumar Geddada

Dr VS Krishna Govt Degree and PG College Autonomous Visakhapatnam

Date Written: September 2, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the relationship between digital transactions and the operating profitability of SBI and HDFC Banks. Specifically, it sought to discern the impact of ATM and mobile transactions on the financial performance of these leading banks.

Methodology: The study adopted a quantitative research approach, analysing data from SBI and HDFC Banks' digital transactions over the period from 2009-10 to 2022-23. Bivariate correlation coefficients were calculated to assess the strength of the relationship between various transaction types and the banks' Financial Performance. Additionally, the least square method was employed to determine the relative influence of transaction types on operating profit growth.

Findings: The findings reveal distinctive patterns in the relationship between transaction types and operating profitability for SBI and HDFC Banks. For SBI, ATM transactions exhibited a notably strong correlation, indicating their pivotal role as the primary driver of operating profit growth. While mobile transactions displayed a moderate relationship, signifying their positive contribution to SBI's profitability, their impact was comparatively lesser than that of ATM transactions.

Keywords: Digital Transactions, HDFC, SBI

Suggested Citation:

Govindu, Dr Bevara and Geddada, Dr Arun Kumar, Digital Transactions Impact on Financial Performance of Banking With Reference to Select Banks – A Connectivity Approach (September 2, 2023). Journal of Xi'an University of Architecture & Technology ISSN No : 1006-7930 Volume XV, Issue 9, 2023 Page No: 438, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4651207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Suman Kumar
An empirical study on banking solution facility in public and private banks
IUP journal of Bank Management , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 48 Posted: 2009
Rosy Chawla , Rachanakumari , Ponam Rani
Technology development with Indian banking sectors , volume 45 , p. 112 - 117 Posted: 2009
Kulwant Singh , Patnania , Mamatha Sharma
An Empirical investigation of the Adoption of modern Banking Technologies
International e-journal of commerce and management , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 63 Posted: 2010
K C Chakravarthy
An Empirical studyMobile banking in India , volume 28 , p. 273 - 277 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
552,669
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies