Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction of Information Technologies and Artificial Intelligence in Corporate Governance Practices in Russia: A Quantitative Study

59 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2023

Roman M Yankovskiy

Moscow State University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

The study was designed to examine the current state and trends of digitizing corporate governance in Russia, including implementing Artificial Intelligence (AI). To achieve this goal, data from 36 major Russian companies and banks were analyzed. Data was collected through questionnaires and analyzed using quantitative methods.

The results of the study showed that almost all large companies have already implemented digital processes in corporate governance. The level of digitalization is particularly high in the fuel industry, financial sector, telecommunications and transport. The most digitized procedures are meetings and sessions of management bodies, including the preparation and holding of shareholders' meetings. Companies are also actively working on the digitalization of reporting and the processing of insider information.

The main obstacles to the introduction of digital technologies in corporate governance are their insufficient efficiency and the resistance to change on the part of management and stakeholders. At the same time, most companies are not yet using or considering the use of artificial intelligence technologies to improve corporate governance.

Keywords: corporate governance, artificial intelligence, AI, digitalization

Suggested Citation:

Yankovskiy, Roman M, Introduction of Information Technologies and Artificial Intelligence in Corporate Governance Practices in Russia: A Quantitative Study (December 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4652653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4652653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
622,944
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies