Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biased Boards

The Accounting Review, volume 94, issue 2, 2018 [10.2308/accr-52210]

56 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2023

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Xiaojing Meng

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Lin Qiu

Purdue University

Date Written: August 23, 2018

Abstract

We study a corporate board tasked with monitoring a firm’s CEO and providing incrementally decision-relevant information. The board has both compensation and non-pecuniary incentives—we label the latter board bias. Friendly boards have muted information gathering incentives but can more effectively engage in cheap-talk communication with management. As a result, the direction of the optimal board bias is determined by the CEO’s initial information advantage: the board should be weakly friendly if the CEO is endowed with precise information, and weakly antagonistic (to the CEO) otherwise. Aside from assembling a friendly board, another way for shareholders to foster CEO/board communication is by granting the CEO more equity. In general, we find board friendliness and CEO equity grants to be positively associated, in equilibrium. This provides an optimal contracting rationale for an empirical regularity often interpreted as friendly boards facilitating rent extraction.

Keywords: boards of directors, executive compensation, friendly boards, cheap talk, managerial power view

JEL Classification: D21, D86, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim and Meng, Xiaojing and Qiu, Lin, Biased Boards (August 23, 2018). The Accounting Review, volume 94, issue 2, 2018 [10.2308/accr-52210], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4652307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/accr-52210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
441,693
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies