Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Eco-Agency Problem and Sustainable Investment

LSE Legal Studies Working Paper No. 26/2023

39 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023 Last revised: 14 Dec 2023

Moran Ofir

University of Haifa; Reichman University (IDC Herzliya)

Tal Elmakiess

Reichman University - Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliyah

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

In times of heightened environmental consciousness and a global call for urgent action, corporations are playing a critical role in addressing pressing environmental challenges. As concerns about climate change, resource depletion, and ecosystem degradation intensify, businesses are under mounting pressure to align their strategies with sustainable practices. Despite that, there is strong evidence of underinvestment in sustainability and environmental efforts by corporations. In this article, we first define the eco-agency problem—the special conflict of interest between the corporate officers who focus on short-term profitability and the other stakeholders who seek long-term profitability and sustainability—and then discuss existing coping measures, such as green bonds, CoCo bonds, and ESG compensation metrics. To assess the extent of the eco-agency problem, we have conducted an experimental study of both professional and nonprofessional investors. According to our findings, both groups exhibit strong and significant preferences for sustainable investments. Revealing the preferences of investors towards sustainability can inspire corporate officers to embrace their role as sustainability advocates, encouraging them to align their decisions with investor preferences, and can thus drive positive change both within their organizations and across industries. In order to mitigate the eco-agency problem, we claim, on the basis of our study, that a unique environmental disclosure is required. By embracing transparency as a strategic advantage, corporations can transcend traditional reporting boundaries, heralding a new era in which investors implement their ecological preferences in the capital market pricing mechanism.

Keywords: sustainability, ESG, corporate governance, experimental economics, green bonds, CoCo bonds, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Ofir, Moran and Elmakiess, Tal, The Eco-Agency Problem and Sustainable Investment (December 4, 2023). LSE Legal Studies Working Paper No. 26/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4652981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4652981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
319,999
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

LSE Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies