Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Compelled Speech: Do State-Imposed Board Diversity Mandates Violate Free Speech?

Ghahramani, Salar. (2024). "Corporate Governance and Compelled Speech: Do State-imposed Board Diversity Mandates Violate Free Speech?." DePaul Business & Commercial Law Journal, Vol. 22(1), pp. 33-56.

24 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2023 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Salar Ghahramani

Penn State University

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

This paper offers a novel examination of board diversity mandates, assessing their constitutional implications, particularly in relation to the First Amendment's principles concerning compelled speech. While courts and scholars have previously explored these mandates from the equal protection perspective, this study asserts, for the first time to the author's knowledge, that there are significant freedom of speech concerns involved. The analysis investigates whether such mandates constitute compelled commercial or ideological speech and evaluates the level of judicial scrutiny required. Employing a legal-analytical approach, the study reviews Supreme Court decisions, relevant statutes, and theories regarding freedom of speech and corporate personhood. The findings indicate that board diversity mandates likely amount to compelled ideological speech, necessitating strict judicial scrutiny. The mandates compel corporations to accept and to adopt state-endorsed ideological stances, thereby affecting the expressive autonomy of corporate entities and their board members and shareholders. The analysis concludes that while board diversity mandates aim to enrich corporate governance, their compatibility with the fundamental tenets of a free and democratic society, particularly in relation to the First Amendment, remains highly questionable.

Keywords: Compelled Speech, First Amendment, Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Judicial Scrutiny, Free Speech, Corporate Law, Corporate Personhood, Legal Theory, Constitutional Law

JEL Classification: G3, G34, G38, k00, k2, k3, k20, k22, k30, k39, m1, m14

Suggested Citation:

Ghahramani, Salar, Corporate Governance and Compelled Speech: Do State-Imposed Board Diversity Mandates Violate Free Speech? (December 4, 2023). Ghahramani, Salar. (2024). "Corporate Governance and Compelled Speech: Do State-imposed Board Diversity Mandates Violate Free Speech?." DePaul Business & Commercial Law Journal, Vol. 22(1), pp. 33-56., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4652355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4652355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Nat Stern , Abner S Greene , Barnette , Masterpiece Cakeshop
For more recent applications of Barnette by the Supreme Court and further discussion of the case's implications in modern jurisprudence
Buff. L. Rev , volume 847 Posted: 2011
319 U.S. at 642. 87. Id , p. 628 - 629
Id
, p. 641 - 643
Wooley V Maynard
Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
960
RANK
472,791
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies