Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of ASC 606 Retrospective Adoption on a Firm's Information Environment

45 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2023 Last revised: 10 Sep 2025

Petrus (Petri) Ferreira

Rice University

Junyoung Jeong

University of Texas at Dallas

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: June 27, 2023

Abstract

This study provides evidence that retrospective adoption of an accounting standard improves the ability of investors and other financial statement users to assess a firm’s relative performance in the years surrounding adoption.  In particular, we find that in the year following adoption of ASC 606, analysts’ revenue forecasts of firms that retrospectively adopt the standard exhibit greater accuracy and agreement and higher stock price liquidity, relative to firms that do not retrospectively adopt the standard.  Additional findings show that analysts use less ambiguous language on earnings conference calls, increasing our confidence that analysts benefit from retrospective adoption.  Post-adoption revenue response coefficients are larger for retrospective adopting firms, suggesting their investors can more easily interpret revenue at the earnings announcement.  Our study’s findings potentially are useful to the FASB’s post-implementation review of ASC 606 and could help the FASB assess the merits of mandating retrospective adoption for future accounting standards.

Keywords: ASC 606, retrospective adoption, within-firm comparability, FASB

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Petrus H. and Jeong, Junyoung and Landsman, Wayne R., The Effects of ASC 606 Retrospective Adoption on a Firm's Information Environment (June 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4653379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4653379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Accounting Principles Board (APB)
Opinions of the accounting principles board No. 20: Accounting changes Posted: 1971
J Ahn , U Hoitash , R Schmardebeck
The Informativeness of SAB 74 Disclosures for Accounting Standard Adoption Outcomes: Evidence from ASC 606 Posted: 2021
W Ali , A Tseng
Identifying the Timing of Revenue Recognition and the Effects of ASC 606 Posted: 2023
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do public disclosures increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
229,218
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies