Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Succession and The Walt Disney Company

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4655361

8 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2023

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December 5, 2023

Abstract

CEO succession planning is a critical exercise for any organization. And yet, experience clearly demonstrates that many companies fail to successfully handle the transition from one CEO to the next. What are the causes of this breakdown? We examine the challenges of a careful, deliberate, and well-scripted succession through the example of The Walt Disney Company.

We ask:

• Why is it so difficult for some companies to find a successor to the outgoing CEO?
• When is it better for a company to select a successor who carries forward the strengths of a predecessor, and when is it better to promote someone different?
• How can a board maintain control of the process, while still leveraging the expertise, insight, and judgment of the outgoing CEO?
• How difficult is the CEO job of a typical, large multinational corporation?
• Does the high pay that CEOs receive reflect a limited supply of talent, or governance breakdowns that impede the proper evaluation of talent?
• Under what circumstances is it the right decision to bring back a former CEO?

Keywords: Corporate governance, Disney, Iger, Staggs, Chapek, CEO succession, succession planning, CEO turnover, talent development, CEO compensation, board of directors, corporate governance research

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, CEO Succession and The Walt Disney Company (December 5, 2023). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4655361, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4655361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Marc Gunter
Is Bob Iger Ready for His Close-up?
Fortune Posted: 2005-04-04
Bruce Orwall , Joann Lublin
The Job of No. 2 Just Got Harder for Disney's Iger
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2004-03-11
Bernard Weinraub
Disney Names New President in Reshuffling
The New York Times Posted: 2000-01-25
Bruce Orwall , Joann Lublin
The Job of No. 2 Just Got Harder for Disney's Iger
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2004-03-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,867
RANK
116,133
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies