Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Price Informativeness and Corporate Tax Avoidance

48 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Onur Bayar

University of Texas at San Antonio - Alvarez College of Business

Fariz Huseynov

North Dakota State University - College of Business

Yini Liu

University of Western Ontario

Sabuhi Sardarli

Kansas State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 26, 2025

Abstract

We demonstrate that private information incorporated into stock prices has a significant impact on the sensitivity of corporate tax avoidance to stock prices. To establish causality, we use the decimalization of quoted prices as an exogenous shock to stock liquidity and NYSE’s Autoquote implementation as a source of exogenous variation in algorithmic trading. Our findings provide strong support for the managerial learning effect, where stock prices convey useful new information to managers in guiding their decisions on tax avoidance. This effect remains robust after accounting for managerial private information, financial constraints, and different sources of public information. Furthermore, in cross-sectional tests we find that the effect is more pronounced in firms with foreign operations and lower capital intensity.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance; Stock Price Informativeness; Managerial Learning; Tax Planning, Stock Price Informativeness, Managerial Learning, Tax Planning

JEL Classification: G14; G31; G32

Suggested Citation:

Bayar, Onur and Huseynov, Fariz and Liu, Yini and Sardarli, Sabuhi, Stock Price Informativeness and Corporate Tax Avoidance (May 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4656618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4656618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
752
RANK
534,717
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies