Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Career Paths in Hierarchies: Theory and Evidence from Chinese Officials

49 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 18 Jan 2024

Jinghong Li

Peking University, National School of Development, Students

Zanhui Liu

Tsinghua University

Yang Yao

Peking University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 7, 2023

Abstract

This paper studies the dynamic patterns of job durations in a hierarchical government. Using a large dataset of Chinese officials from 1994 to 2017, we find systematic evidence that the promotion rates of officials at different levels of government are negatively correlated, contrary to the common finding of fast track in the literature. To characterize the career paths in hierarchies, we develop a dynamic model of optimal job assignments with symmetric learning. The model highlights the role of seniority in coping with the Type-II error, that is, the risk of over-evaluating an official’s ability. Only very capable officials are spared, and the fast track applies; relatively capable officials are subject to the over-evaluation risk, and their job durations are negatively correlated across levels of government. A negative correlation is also more likely to happen when the controller is more risk averse, which may explain mixed findings in the literature.

Keywords: career paths, fast track, seniority, meritocracy

JEL Classification: M51, D8, H70

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinghong and Liu, Zanhui and Yao, Yang, Career Paths in Hierarchies: Theory and Evidence from Chinese Officials (December 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4656945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4656945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
K Ariga , Y Ohkusa , G Brunello
Fast track: Is it in the genes? The promotion policy of a large Japanese firm
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 385 - 402 Posted: 1999
G Baker , M Gibbs , B Holmstrom
The internal economics of the firm: Evidence from personnel data
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 881 - 919 Posted: 1994
C Belzil , M Bognanno
The promotion dynamics of American executives
Research in Labor Economics , volume 30 , p. 189 - 231 Posted: 2010
D Bernhardt
Strategic promotion and compensation
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 315 - 339 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
464,511
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies