Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Air pollution and institutional investors' valuation bias during initial public offerings

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 80, (2023),102096. DOI:10.1016/j.pacfin.2023.102096.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Yeguang Chi

University of Auckland, Business School, Department of Accounting and Finance

Jingbin He

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Finance

Xinru Ma

Sichuan University - Business School

Fei Wu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF)

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of day-to-day and geographic variation in air pollution on the bidding behavior of institutional investors in Chinese IPO auctions. We find that institutional bidders who are exposed to more severe air pollution submit more pessimistic (lower) bids. We construct an instrumental variable based on the wind speed to further establish the causal relation between air pollution and institutional investors' valuation bias. Air pollution-induced bias is amplified under more depressing environmental conditions, in IPOs with greater information uncertainty, and among inexperienced bidders. Moreover, institutional bidders affected by air pollution obtain fewer share allocations and earn lower returns. Finally, air pollution-induced bias in aggregate can negatively affect the pricing efficiency of IPOs. Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacfin.2023.102096

Keywords: Initial public offering (IPO), Institutional investors, Pollution, Valuation bias

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Yeguang and He, Jingbin and Ma, Xinru and Wu, Fei, Air pollution and institutional investors' valuation bias during initial public offerings ( 2023). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 80, (2023),102096. DOI:10.1016/j.pacfin.2023.102096., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657008
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies