Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Decoupling and Financial Fraud: Unveiling the Hidden Nexus in Us-Listed Firms

47 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Asif Saeed

FAST School Of Management, NUCES

Samreen Hamid

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences (NUCES or FAST-NU)

Riadh Manita

Independent

Phassawan Suntraruk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In this era of increasing transparency and social consciousness, many companies are only engaged in symbolic communication of CSR in lieu of substantive action. This scepticism is notably exemplified by 'CSR decoupling'. Besides, the exposure of financial fraud within socially responsible firms compounds the ethical dilemma, casting doubt on their sincerity and regulatory mechanisms.  This study focuses on US-listed firms to investigate the relationship between CSR decoupling and financial fraud. The sample is drawn by using a propensity score matching (PSM) technique. Research findings suggest that firms engaging in CSR decoupling are at greater risk of financial fraud commitment. While inadequate governance, low audit quality, and concentrated ownership structure make a firm more susceptible to fraud commitment. Our study stresses the significance for stakeholders and regulatory bodies to exercise caution while analysing CSR performance and disclosure by firms as managers with personal motives can distort CSR initiatives to mislead stakeholders.

Keywords: CSR, decoupling, financial fraud, Corporate governance, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Saeed, Asif and Hamid, Samreen and Manita, Riadh and Suntraruk, Phassawan, CSR Decoupling and Financial Fraud: Unveiling the Hidden Nexus in Us-Listed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
601,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies