Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Corporate Governance and Involuntary Delisting in Frontier Markets: A Nuanced Perspective from Vietnam

45 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Quynh Nguyen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Maria Kim

University of Wollongong

Sandy Suardi

University of Wollongong

Abstract

This study examines how corporate governance quality affects the risk of involuntary delisting in Vietnam's emerging capital market. Analysing data from 815 non-financial Vietnamese firms between 2008 and 2019, we construct and utilise a comprehensive Corporate Governance Index (CGI) aligned with Vietnamese corporate governance practices. We find a strong connection between higher corporate governance quality and a reduced risk of involuntary delisting, particularly among non-state-owned enterprises, firms with significant foreign ownership, those with lower ownership concentration, and high-growth firms. Moreover, our research highlights how corporate governance measures enhance the accuracy of delisting prediction models. These findings hold up when considering alternative dependent variables, like distance to default and credit default swap spread. Additionally, we use instrumental variable and propensity score matching methods to address potential issues of reverse causality and sample selection bias. Given Vietnam's ongoing financial market liberalisation efforts, these results carry significant implications for the Vietnamese government in attracting foreign capital.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, ownership structure, growth opportunities, delisting risk, Vietnam

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Quynh and Kim, Maria and Suardi, Sandy, Navigating Corporate Governance and Involuntary Delisting in Frontier Markets: A Nuanced Perspective from Vietnam. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657203 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
O Adeboye , I S Fagoyinb , T Olatayo
Estimation of the effect of multicollinearity on the standard error for regression coefficients
IOSR Journal of Mathematics , volume 10 , issue 3 Posted: 2014
A Agrawal , T Nasser
Corporate financial and investment policies in the presence of a blockholder on the board
Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , T Nasser
Blockholders on boards and CEO compensation, turnover and firm valuation
Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
872,402
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies