Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does it Matter Who Owns Firms? Evidence on the Impact of Supermajority Control on Private Firms in Europe

50 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Saul Estrin

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Jan Hanousek

Faculty of Business and Economics, Mendel University in Brno; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Anastasiya Shamshur

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We explore how the type of owner affects private enterprise investment decisions in Europe. In contrast to the literature, we analyze firms with concentrated (more than 95%) ownership stakes to reduce the potential that agency problems contaminate our results. We consider four types of supermajority owners – family, institutional, corporate, and state and use detailed ownership and financial information from a large sample of private firms from 24 European countries from 2001 to 2018. We find that family-owned firms exhibit higher gross investment rates and substantially higher sensitivity to investment opportunities, profitability, cash flow, and value-added growth compared to corporate and institutional owners. At the same time, and more consistent with the literature, family-owned firms invest significantly less in intangible assets than other ownership types. To demonstrate the robustness of our results, we employ matching samples complemented by analysis of owner-type transitions from family owners to corporate and institutional owners.

Keywords: European private firms, business opportunities, cash flow sensitivity, ownership types, Investments

Suggested Citation:

Estrin, Saul and Estrin, Saul and Hanousek, Jan and Shamshur, Anastasiya, Does it Matter Who Owns Firms? Evidence on the Impact of Supermajority Control on Private Firms in Europe. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
Comparative and international corporate governance
Academy of Management Annals , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 485 - 556 Posted: 2010
R V Aguilera , R Crespi-Cladera
Firm family firms: Current debates of corporate governance in family firms
Journal of Family Business Strategy , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 66 - 69 Posted: 2012
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial management , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
469,965
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies