Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Corporate Site Visits and the Cost of Debt

45 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Kaijuan Gao

Business School, Hunan University

Xinyu Zhu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - Department of Accountancy

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

Institutional investor site visits (IISVs) alleviate the information asymmetry between shareholders and creditors and play a monitoring role on firms. However, IISVs also intensify the inherent Type II agency problems between shareholders and creditors. It is unclear how IISVs impact cost of debt for a firm. We use a sample of A-share Chinese firms from 2009 to 2020 to show that IISVs have a net positive effect on firms in terms of lowering the cost of their debt. The findings are robust to a battery of checks. In addition, we show that when the firm has a poor information environment or weak corporate governance, the effect of IISVs on lowering the cost of debt is more salient. In contrast, when institutional investors are already shareholders of the visited firm, the effect of an IISV is less salient due to worse Type II agency problems between shareholders and creditors.

Keywords: Agency problem, cost of debt, Institutional Investor, Site visits

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Kaijuan and Zhu, Xinyu and Chan, Johnny, Institutional Investor Corporate Site Visits and the Cost of Debt. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Z An , D Li , J Yu
Firm crash risk, information environment, and speed of leverage adjustment
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 132 - 151 Posted: 2015
J R Booth , D N Deli
On executives of financial institutions as outside directors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 250 Posted: 1999
P Brockman , E Unlu
Dividend policy, creditor rights, and the agency costs of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 276 - 299 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
798,750
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies