Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Busy Independent Directors Alleviate the Dark Side of Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance

40 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Vu Trinh

Newcastle University

Teng Li

University of Essex

eleana ha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Using corporate tax avoidance (CTA) as evidence, our study addresses the conundrum of how to reduce the potentially negative edge of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) sword by examining the possible channels through which the CSR-driven CTA can be mitigated. We investigate how the ‘busyness’ function of independent directors (i.e., holding multiple directorships across firms) mitigates the potential CTA-increasing impact of CSR in the Chinese listed firms. In accordance with the reputation risk management theory, our results initially confirm that more socially responsible firms engage in aggressive CTA, but this is significantly alleviated when busy independent directors are present. Our results remain robust after a battery of treatments on endogeneity and sample selection biases and quasi-natural experiments employing the difference-in-differences estimations on a regulatory shock.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, corporate tax avoidance, board busyness, independent directors, China

Suggested Citation:

Trinh, Vu and Li, Teng and ha, eleana, Can Busy Independent Directors Alleviate the Dark Side of Corporate Social Responsibility? Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
K Bar-Hava , S Huang , B Segal , D Segal
Do independent directors tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth when they resign
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 2021
Bbc
Paradise Papers: Apple's secret tax bolthole revealed Posted: 2017-03
Bbc
Paradise Papers: Tax haven secrets of ultra-rich exposed Posted: 2017-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
RANK
778,745
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies