Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Refreshing Boards: Countering CEO Entrenchment

47 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Mustafa A Dah

Lebanese American University - Adnan Kassar School of Business

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of director refreshment on CEO entrenchment, which is often highlighted as a symptom of poor monitoring and heightened agency conflicts. Proposing a weighted board refreshment index composed of seven director characteristics, findings suggest that board refreshment decreases both the CEO entrenchment index and excess compensation. Moreover, results imply that board refreshment has a favorable moderating influence on the negative association between managerial entrenchment and firm performance. I show that all seven of the individual refreshment characteristics significantly contribute to the achievement of these outcomes. Overall, this paper emphasizes the positive effect of board refreshment on internal monitoring efficiency, thereby tempering managerial entrenchment and consequently advancing shareholder welfare.

Keywords: Board Refreshment, Board Monitoring, CEO entrenchment, CEO Excess Compensation, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Dah, Mustafa A, Refreshing Boards: Countering CEO Entrenchment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
R C Anderson , D M Reeb , A Upadhyay , W Zhao
The economics of director heterogeneity , volume 40 , p. 5 - 38 Posted: 2011
C Antounian , M A Dah , M Harakeh
Excessive managerial entrenchment, corporate governance, and firm performance
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 56 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies