Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Textual Charcteristics of Risk Disclosures and Credit Risk Premium: Evidence from the Chinese Corporate Bond Market

39 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Lu Wei

Central University of Finance and Economics

Haozhe Jing

Central University of Finance and Economics

Xiyuan Miao

Central University of Finance and Economics

艳珍 尧

Dongguan University of Technology

Abstract

This paper initially analyzes the impact of risk disclosures in bond prospectuses on the credit risk premium in the Chinese corporate bond market through six textual characteristics. In the empirical analysis, the collected 5199 bond prospectuses and structured data concerning control variables from 2006 to 2021 are used to perform the fixed effect regression analysis. The results show that fewer Words, less Boilerplate, higher Fox Index, more HardInfoMix, more Redundancy, and higher Specificity of risk disclosures in bond prospectuses will lead to a higher credit risk premium. Further tests demonstrate that ceteris paribus, the negative impact of Words and Boilerplate will be strengthened by implicit government guarantees carried by a state-owned enterprise but be weakened by better corporate business performance. However, ceteris paribus, positive effects of the Fog Index, HardInfoMix, Redundancy, and Specificity will be weakened when the bond issuer is state-owned but be strengthened by better corporate business performance.

Keywords: Textual characteristics, Credit risk premium, Risk disclosure, Corporate business performance, Implicit government guarantee

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Lu and Jing, Haozhe and Miao, Xiyuan and 尧, 艳珍, Textual Charcteristics of Risk Disclosures and Credit Risk Premium: Evidence from the Chinese Corporate Bond Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
RANK
848,823
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies