Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics and Market Power: Evidence from Italian Listed Banks

33 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2023

Paolo Coccorese

University of Salerno - Dept. of Economics and Statistics

Abstract

We try to assess the extent to which board structure and composition affect market power of Italian listed banks by means of a two-stage procedure: we first estimate bank-level Lerner indices, then we regress these market power indicators on a set of variables related to board, bank-specific and macroeconomic characteristics for the period 2008-2022. We find that market power is higher for banks with small and one-tier system boards characterized by low meeting frequency, few independent but more foreign members, substantial age homogeneity, and not very busy directors. Further, we show that the results are quite different when using accounting measures of bank performance, suggesting that estimating Lerner indices can improve the quality of information for banking regulators and policy makers.

Keywords: Banking, Corporate Governance, Board of directors, Market power, Lerner index

Suggested Citation:

Coccorese, Paolo, Board Characteristics and Market Power: Evidence from Italian Listed Banks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4657174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
D J Aigner , C K A Lovell , P Schmidt
Formulation and estimation of stochastic frontier production function models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 1977
Y Altunbas , E P M Gardener , P Molyneux , B Moore
Efficiency in European banking
European Economic Review , volume 45 , issue 10 , p. 1931 - 1955 Posted: 2001
F Arnaboldi , B Casu , E Kalotychou , A Sarkisyan
Board diversity reforms: Do they matter for EU bank performance?
European Financial Management , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 416 - 454 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
392
RANK
765,896
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies