Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Career Concerns and Strategic Decisions: An Empirical Analysis of M&As

https://doi.org/10.1080/09638180.2023.2291405 .

79 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Sebastian Firk

University of Groningen - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Yannik Gehrke

University of Goettingen

Sven Richter

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Wolff

University of Göttingen

Date Written: December 8, 2023

Abstract

Chief financial officers (CFOs) have become increasingly involved in strategic decisions. The literature has emphasized the potential benefits of this development, delineating CFOs as impartial advisors who ensure economically conscious decisions. Our study, however, suggests that the career concerns of CFOs create signaling incentives that detrimentally influence the outcomes of strategic decisions. Based on the merger and acquisition (M&A) decisions of S&P 500 firms between 2005 and 2018, our results show that CFOs with higher signaling incentives (i.e., at earlier and later career stages) are associated with lower M&A returns, higher M&A premiums, greater M&A activity, and riskier M&A features (e.g., large, diversified, or cross-border deals). This association is stronger when chief executive officers are more likely to delegate decision authority to CFOs, whereas it is weaker when CFOs have a higher reputation, strong long-term incentives, and when there is strong external monitoring. Our results further indicate that the labor market highly values the M&A experience of CFOs and only lightly punishes CFOs involved in value-destroying M&As.

Keywords: Chief financial officer, career concerns, implicit career incentives, M&As, career horizon

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M51

Suggested Citation:

Firk, Sebastian and Gehrke, Yannik and Richter, Sven and Wolff, Michael, CFO Career Concerns and Strategic Decisions: An Empirical Analysis of M&As (December 8, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1080/09638180.2023.2291405 ., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4658736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
S Agarwal , K Gjerstad , H Kalland , M Krühler , M Rodt , A Roos , T Ruska , J Tucker
The CFO's Vital Role in Corporate Transformation Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , K Chandra , P Prakash , I Seth
The new CFO mandate: Prioritize, transform, repeat Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , E Gibbs , J.-H Monier
Who's Better at Strategy: CFOs or CSOs? Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
2 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies