Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Index Fund Ownership in the Era of Say-on-Pay

52 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 3 Aug 2025

Kiseo Chung

Texas Tech University - Area of Finance

Hwanki Brian Kim

Baylor University - Department of Finance, Insurance & Real Estate

Date Written: August 03, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether and how index funds influence executive compensation in the post–Say-on-Pay era. Using the annual reconstitution of the Russell indexes as a source of exogenous variation in index fund ownership, we document a causal effect of index ownership on CEO pay structure. Firms with greater index ownership adopt more performance-vesting and equity-based compensation, consistent with preferences expressed by institutional investors and proxy advisors. These effects emerge only after the implementation of Say-on-Pay rule, suggesting a voting-enabled mechanism. Further analysis reveals that index funds are more likely to vote in line with ISS, particularly when pay practices are problematic, and that failed Say-on-Pay votes lead to revisions in compensation structure. We also find stronger pay-for-performance sensitivity following index ownership shocks. Our findings highlight a scalable governance channel through which index funds, despite their passive mandates, actively shape executive incentives via proxy voting.

Keywords: JEL category: G23, G28, G32, J33, M52, M55 Index Fund ownership, Index fund ownership, executive compensation, proxy advisors, corporate governance, Say-on-Pay

JEL Classification: G23, G28, G32, J33, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Kiseo and Kim, Hwanki Brian, The Role of Index Fund Ownership in the Era of Say-on-Pay (August 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4658275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4658275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A M Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z M Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Luann J., Complexity of CEO Compensation Packages Posted: 2022-03-25
C R Alexander , M A Chen , D J Seppi , C S Spatt
Interim news and the role of proxy voting advice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 4419 - 4454 Posted: 2010
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial management , volume 34 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
946
RANK
478,373
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies