Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on Debt Governance

67 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Aras Canipek

Columbia University

Date Written: December 9, 2023

Abstract

A large theoretical literature suggests that debt can mitigate agency problems, yet empirical evidence is limited due to identification problems. To provide evidence, I examine whether firms implement independent directors as a substitute when debt governance becomes ineffective. Key to my analysis are two central features of debt as a governance device: first, it is only effective with bankruptcy penalties, second, it only matters for firms close to default. Consistent with debt inducing discipline, across countries, board independence is negatively related to bankruptcy penalties, and especially so among risky firms. For them, a change from strictest to softest penalties is associated with a 46% increase in the number of independent directors. Comparing changes in board independence of risky firms to those of safe firms around bankruptcy reforms confirms the cross-country results. My findings underline the role of agency problems in explaining corporate capital structure, and can further account for several unresolved issues in corporate governance (e.g., differences in bankruptcy penalties can explain 37% of the 37 percentage point “board independence gap” between the US and the UK). Moreover, my findings have important implications for optimal bankruptcy design: in the absence of bankruptcy penalties, management may have difficulties to credibly commit to forgo inefficient actions and thus to secure financing.

Keywords: Debt, corporate governance, bankruptcy, board independence

JEL Classification: G32, G33, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Canipek, Aras, Empirical Evidence on Debt Governance (December 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4659362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4659362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
RANK
422,747
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies