Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Accounting, Management and Sustainability Imperatives of Sustainable Transformative Performance

Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, 2, 180-189

10 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 22 Feb 2024

Haruna Maama

Durban University of Technology (DUT)

Date Written: October 16, 2023

Abstract

In the dynamic contemporary business environment, sustainability has evolved as a central pillar of organisational performance, as financial performance is no longer considered a firm's sole objective. However, the impact of sustainability practice on accounting, management and strategies has been told in a disparate manner. As a result, this systematic literature review analyses and synthesises the complex intersection of accounting, management practices, and the compelling mandates of sustainability. This literature review covers numerous facets of organisational practices and performance as it moves through several research themes involving the nexus of accounting, management, and sustainability. The study reviews topics like financial valuation and reporting, looking at the complex connection between financial performance and sustainability disclosures. The study also discusses management and accounting procedures, looking closely at how organisations are changing their plans to comply with sustainability requirements. This covers issues including fraud prevention techniques and cost management focusing on sustainability. The review also looks into the complex effects of sustainability practices on economic development, growth, and investment. It discusses how foreign direct investments affect the sustainability of host nations' economies. In addition, the study explores the views of educators on the efficacy of efforts focused on sustainability within the context of education and academia. The study also examines career paths in accounting academia to shed light on how educational institutions contribute to a sustainable future. Finally, the study examines gender variations in employee attrition and how talent management strategies are perceived. This is done by focusing on talent management and human resources.

Keywords: Accounting Practices, Financial Valuation, Financial Literacy, Environmental Disclosures, Economic Growth, Talent Management, Gender Disparities

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Maama, Haruna, A Review of Accounting, Management and Sustainability Imperatives of Sustainable Transformative Performance (October 16, 2023). Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, 2, 180-189, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Andersson , G Svensson , F J Molina-Castillo , C Otero-Neira , J Lindgren , N P Karlsson , H Laurell
Sustainable development-Direct and indirect effects between economic, social, and environmental dimensions in business practices
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 29 , issue 5 , p. 1158 - 1172 Posted: 2022
D B H Anh , L D M Duc , N T H Yen , N T Hung , N H Tien
Sustainable development of social entrepreneurship: evidence from Vietnam
International journal of entrepreneurship and small business , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 76 Posted: 2022
M Ashrafi , G M Magnan , M Adams , T R Walker
Understanding the conceptual evolutionary path and theoretical underpinnings of corporate social responsibility and corporate sustainability
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
U Atz , T Van Holt , Z Z Liu , C C Bruno
Does sustainability generate better financial performance? review, meta-analysis, and propositions
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 802 - 825 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
RANK
618,599
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies