Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Ownership, Risk Management, and Bank Runs at Unlimited Liability Banks during the 1890s

62 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 11 Sep 2025

Haelim Anderson

Andersen Institute for Finance and Economics

Jaewon Choi

Seoul National University - Department of Economics

Jennifer Rhee

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

Using unique data on California state banks with unlimited liability, we examine how the liability of bank presidents relates to risk management and bank runs during the panic of 1893. During this period, bank presidents were mandated to hold bank stocks with features resembling restricted stock option and clawback provisions of today. We find that banks whose presidents have a greater liability exposure adopt more conservative risk management strategies and are thus less likely to experience bank runs and failures. Our study implies that regulatory policies on bank executives affect the risk management methods and the default risk of banks.

Keywords: Managerial Ownership, Managerial liability, Corporate governance, Bank Risk-taking, Panic of 1893

JEL Classification: G21, N12, N22, D82, E32

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Haelim and Anderson, Haelim and Choi, Jaewon and Rhee, Jennifer, CEO Ownership, Risk Management, and Bank Runs at Unlimited Liability Banks during the 1890s (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
409,437
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies