Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Audit Services and the Cost of Debt in Private Firms

46 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2024

Vincent Compagnie

HEC Liège

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Raf Orens

KU Leuven

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the engagement in NAS provided by the incumbent auditor affects perceived financial statement reliability in a large private firm setting through a firm’s debt pricing.

In many countries, audit regulations restrict the provision of non-audit services (NAS) in public interest entities to improve audit quality and restore confidence in financial statement information. However, such restraints typically do not exist for most private firms. If NAS decrease confidence in financial statement reliability, then these services hinder a private firm’s financing flexibility as they have less financing sources compared to their publicly listed counterparts. This study examines whether NAS matter to the debt pricing of large private firms as debt financing is an important financing source of private firms, using Stringent firm fixed effects panel regression and cross-sectional analyses on a sample that consists out of 3,723 Belgian private firms during the period 2010 – 2013.This study is of importance to audit research, practitioners, and regulators.

We find that creditors that demand financial statement reliability are more likely to charge a lower cost of debt when a firm purchases NAS from the incumbent auditor. We attribute this finding to creditors perceiving NAS as value-additive. However, this finding dissipates when creditors demand higher financial statement reliability, indicating that higher monitoring costs offset the beneficial effects from NAS. Lastly, we document a stronger negative association between NAS purchase and the cost of debt when the purchased NAS type is connected to the firm’s accounting information.

Keywords: Non-Audit Services, Cost of Debt, Private Firms

Suggested Citation:

Compagnie, Vincent and Jeny, Anne and Orens, Raf, Non-Audit Services and the Cost of Debt in Private Firms (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
The jointness of audit fees and demand for MAS: a self-selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 295 - 322 Posted: 1990
J S Ang
On the Theory of Finance for Privately Held Firms
Journal of Small Business Finance , volume 1 , p. 185 - 203 Posted: 1992
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately Held Small Businesses
Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
N Alsadoun , V Naiker , F Navissi , D S Sharma
Auditor-provided tax nonaudit services and the implied cost of equity
Auditing , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Jerry Kwarbai , Emmanuel Oyeku
Non-audit Services and Audit Quality of Listed Industrial Goods Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria
Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 318 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
599
RANK
677,550
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies