Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reproduction of Efficiency Through Management Accounting Practices: Socio-Economic, Environmental and Human Consequences of NPM Reforms

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

2 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Claudia Barrios-Álvarez

Pontifical University Javeriana Cali

Pawan Adhikari

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Ekililu Salifu

University of Reading

Alina Gómez Mejía

Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali

Ximena Giraldo-Villano

Universidad del Valle

Date Written: December 12, 2023

Abstract

Using Giddens (1984) Structuration Theory (ST), in this paper we illustrate how the efficiency-driven approaches adopted by a large stated-owned public company in Latin America (LAMC) implicitly resulted in triggering a dam disaster with far-reaching socio-economic, environmental and human consequences. Data for the study were derived through document analysis and conducting unstructured, semi-structured, and email interviews. Our findings show that the internalisation of efficiency as a corporate value at LAMC was further rationalised through the adoption of new public management (NPM)-based management accounting practices (MAPs) embedded within the market-led development approach. These MAPs connected agencies and structures in a dialectic way and continued reproducing efficiency through day-to-day operations and by enabling the company to champion itself as a successful NPM adopter. However, throughout this process, the socio-environmental and human costs relating to ‘the dam project’ were overlooked, making the disaster inevitable. The paper questions the market-led development approach, and NPM-based MAPs, and calls for further empirical work delineating how MAPs can be implicated in public value creation and promoting publicness in emerging economies. Such work is of paramount importance not only to prevent the ‘unexpected and unwanted effects of public sector accounting’ under NPM and market-led development but also to save the lives and livelihoods of poor and vulnerable community members in emerging economies.

Keywords: [market-led development, management accounting practices, emerging economies, efficiency, NPM reforms]

JEL Classification: [M4-for Accounting]

Suggested Citation:

Barrios-Álvarez, Claudia and Adhikari, Pawan and Salifu, Ekililu and Gómez Mejía, Alina and Giraldo-Villano, Ximena, Reproduction of Efficiency Through Management Accounting Practices: Socio-Economic, Environmental and Human Consequences of NPM Reforms (December 12, 2023). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
409
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies