Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global banking stability in light of ESG performance: New insights from climate change vulnerability

40 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023 Last revised: 19 Nov 2024

Mridu Pradhan

University of New Orleans

Ahmed W. Alam

Kean University

M. Kabir Hassan

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Hasanul Banna

Manchester Metropolitan University

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the interlinkage between environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices, climate change, and banking sector stability. Using a global sample of banks, we find that ESG performance significantly increases the financial stability of the banks. While this effect is valid for all three sub-indices of ESG, it varies with bank size. The baseline findings remain robust to using U.S. and non-U.S. samples, controlling for country-level institutional quality, and using a matched sample of banks created through propensity score matching (PSM) estimation, addressing endogeneity. Further tests reveal that a country’s climate change vulnerability significantly weakens the positive influences of ESG and its sub-indices on bank stability. Furthermore, we show that while the dismantling effect of climate change is more substantial for banks with weaker performance in overall ESG and its social dimension, it is insignificant across heterogeneity in the governance ratings. Our findings have policy implications in ensuring a healthier and sustainable banking environment amidst high climate risk.

Keywords: ESG, Bank stability, Climate change, Climate vulnerability

JEL Classification: G21, G30, M14, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Pradhan, Mridu and Alam, Ahmed W. and Hassan, M. Kabir and Banna, Hasanul, Global banking stability in light of ESG performance: New insights from climate change vulnerability (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes Ii
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, organizations and society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
A W Alam , H Banna , M K Hassan
ESG activities and bank efficiency: Are Islamic banks better
Journal of Islamic Monetary Economics and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 88 Posted: 2022
A W Alam , A Farjana , R Houston
State-level economic policy uncertainty (EPU) and firm financial stability: Is there any political insurance? Economics Letters Posted: 2023
A W Alam , M K Hassan , H Banna
An empirical investigation of banks' sustainability performance under economic policy uncertainty
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,884
RANK
270,833
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies