Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Captured Boards Undermine Shareholders' Value? Evidence from Crash Risk in the Us Market

57 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2023

Md Al Mamun

La Trobe University - Department of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Darren Henry

La Trobe University - Department of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Abstract

Using stock price crash risk, as a proxy for shareholders’ wealth effect, we find that captured boards erode shareholders value by increasing future stock price crash risk. In our channel analysis, we find that captured boards are related to higher levels of bad news hoarding, board meeting absentism and overinvestment. The association between captured boards and stock price crash risk is stronger among firms with higher sensitivity of CEO wealth to stock prices, powerful CEOs, and higher directors’ compensation. External monitoring from institutional investors or the market for corporate control does not subsume the effect of captured boards on crash risk. Overall, our findings present evidence on the adverse effect of captured boards and reveal the economic mechanisms behind such effect.

Keywords: Captured boards, hiding bad news, stock price crash risk, shareholders' wealth

Suggested Citation:

Al Mamun, Md and Henry, Darren and Balachandran, Balasingham, Do Captured Boards Undermine Shareholders' Value? Evidence from Crash Risk in the Us Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
772,295
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies