Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Directors and Accounting Quality: a Quasi-natural Experiment Research

Garcia-Blandon, J., Argilés-Bosch, J. M., & Ravenda, D. (2023). Female directors and accounting quality: A quasi-natural experiment research. Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (in-press)

28 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2024

Josep Garcia-Blandon

Ramon Llull University

Josep M. Argilés‐Bosch

University of Barcelona

Diego Ravenda

TBS Business School

Date Written: December 12, 2023

Abstract

This study capitalizes on the unique setting created by the enactment of a board gender quota in Norway, which led to an unprecedented increase in the number of female directors within a short timeframe. To examine the impact of female board presence on accounting quality, the study employs a difference-in-differences methodology, taking advantage of this quasi-natural experiment context. Given the inherently endogenous nature of the research topic, the interpretation of the relationship between the number of female directors on the board and accounting quality reported in some prior studies as casual relationships poses challenges. In that regard, this study aims to shed light on an unresolved issue with the implementation of a research design that is particularly robust to endogeneity concerns. The empirical analysis produces compelling results, firmly rejecting any significant impact of female directors on accounting quality. The findings hold strong across various checks.

Keywords: female directors; abnormal accruals, accounting conservatism, earnings response coefficients, difference-in-differences

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Blandon, Josep and Argiles-Bosch, Josep M. and Ravenda, Diego, Female Directors and Accounting Quality: a Quasi-natural Experiment Research (December 12, 2023). Garcia-Blandon, J., Argilés-Bosch, J. M., & Ravenda, D. (2023). Female directors and accounting quality: A quasi-natural experiment research. Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (in-press), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4661988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4661988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
H Abou-El-Sood
Board gender diversity, power, and bank risk taking
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 75 Posted: 2021
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
564
RANK
687,436
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies