Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is investing in accountants an efficient decision?

52 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 25 Apr 2025

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Jacob Ott

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

This study explores the relation between the size of a firm’s accounting department and the quality of its investment decisions. To investigate this, we track the yearly employment levels of accountants within firms and find a positive association with investment efficiency. We document this association for both financial accountants and managerial accountants. However, once we control for external financial reporting quality, only the relation with managerial accountants remains significant. Cross-sectional results strengthen our conclusion that managerial accountants are associated with improved investment efficiency through reduced internal information frictions. To strengthen our inferences, we examine a negative shock to the supply of accountants and find consistent results in a difference-in-differences analysis. Our study contributes to both the investment efficiency literature and the growing body of literature emphasizing the importance of human capital by highlighting one benefit of accounting-based human capital.

Keywords: accountants, human capital, investment efficiency, managerial accountants

JEL Classification: M41, M51, G31, J24

Suggested Citation:

Iselin, Michael and Ott, Jacob and Zou, Youli, Is investing in accountants an efficient decision? (April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4661160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4661160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
149,037
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies