Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revenue Accounting Information System Revenue at Pt Railway Divre I North Sumatera

19 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2023

KHAIRUL HASANAH

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to assess how well the income accounting information system used at PT Indonesian Railways Divre I North Sumatra. This study uses qualitative techniques. Descriptive analysis using qualitative methodology is the data analysis method used. The organizational structure of PT Indonesian Railways Divre I North Sumatra as a whole is good, and in carrying out revenue collection activities, the documents have been numbered sequentially with the aim of preventing fraud, so that it can be said that the input income accounting information system is good,

Keywords: Income, Internal Controls and Accounting Information System

Suggested Citation:

HASANAH, KHAIRUL, Revenue Accounting Information System Revenue at Pt Railway Divre I North Sumatera. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4661303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4661303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies