Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Conversion Cycle and Bargaining Power in the Product Market a Global Perspective

36 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023

Koresh Galil

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Economics

Thomas Lindner

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Offer Shapir

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Rodrigo Zeidan

New York University Shanghai

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between working capital management and market power, focusing on how companies with market power optimize cash generation over time. Employing a dynamic approach, we investigate the role of the cash conversion cycle (CCC) and operating working capital (OWC) in revealing complements to fixed assets. Our model considers creditconstrained firms with market power and predicts their behavior in managing trade credit. Empirical evidence from a sample of 11,395 US and Canadian firms and 21,613 firms worldwide during 1962-2017 supports the model, demonstrating that companies leverage market power to extract value through trade credit channels, especially during slow growth periods. The study also explores the impact of the global financial crisis, revealing a strengthened relationship between market power and CCC for firms with positive CCC. These findings suggest a potential permanent shift in working capital management behavior as an insurance against credit-market shocks.

Keywords: cash conversion cycle, market power, trade credit, profit maximization, general dynamic model

Suggested Citation:

Galil, Koresh and Lindner, Thomas and Shapir, Offer and Zeidan, Rodrigo, Cash Conversion Cycle and Bargaining Power in the Product Market a Global Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4662912 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4662912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
634
RANK
436,820
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies