Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Firm Performance and the First-Generation Change: Evidence from Latvia

18 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023

Anete Pajuste

Stockholm School of Economics, Riga; European Gorporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Boston University

Janis Berzins

BI Norwegian Business School

Abstract

We examine succession and performance of family firms in Latvia. Latvia offers a natural setting to examine first-generation succession, because a majority of these firms were established shortly after the country gained independence in the early 1990s. Initial findings indicate that often the founding family does not have a majority at the outset. It takes 20 years for family ownership to exceed 75% and for firms with second-generation ownership to reach almost 10% of the sample. Notably, approximately 80% of the sample firms are still majority-owned and managed by their founders and report higher ROA than nonfamily firms do.

Keywords: family firms, succession planning, family ownership, Corporate governance, return on assets (ROA)

Suggested Citation:

Pajuste, Anete and Berzins, Janis, Family Firm Performance and the First-Generation Change: Evidence from Latvia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4663481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4663481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies