Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Covid-19 on Banks’ Dividends: Case of Conventional vs. Islamic Banks

18 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2024

Lama Al-kayed

Prince Sultan University

Kolthoom Alkofahi

Prince Sultan University

khaoula aliani

Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University

Abstract

This paper explored the dividend pay-out policy for both conventional and Islamic banks before and during Covid-19 era to investigate whether their policies stayed the same.  Data for 44 Islamic banks and 54 Conventional banks where collected through Bloomberg terminal and the panel random effect model was used to analyze them. Results show that profitability is not a significant determinant of IBs and CBs dividend policies. Growth opportunities, leverage and size are the main determinants of dividend pay-outs for both IBs and CBs. Although the variables had same sign and affect for both IBs and CBs, the main difference is that IBs tended to have lower omissions and more stable dividend policy during Covid 19 era. This result documents the importance of signalling theory during crisis period for IBs. Although IBs did not signal higher profitability, they signalled the higher growth opportunities for investors in the market. This research is a contribution for academics and practitioners for further analysis as to the specific factors that lead IBs to better keep their stable dividend policy even during crisis times. It is also important for investors to know which companies are able to keep their policy during crisis time.

Keywords: compensationislamic banksdividends

Suggested Citation:

Al-kayed, Lama and Alkofahi, Kolthoom and aliani, khaoula, The Impact of Covid-19 on Banks’ Dividends: Case of Conventional vs. Islamic Banks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4664305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4664305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R I Abdulkadir , A H Abdullah , W Woei-Chyuan
DIVIDEND POLICY CHANGES IN THE PRE-, MID-, AND POST-FINANCIAL CRISIS: EVIDENCE FROM THE NIGERIAN STOCK MARKET
AAMJAF , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2015
Y Abdulla , Y Ebrahim
Effect of COVID-19 on the performance of Islamic and conventional GCC banks
Review of Financial Economics , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 239 - 258 Posted: 2022
V Acharya , I Gujral , H Shin
Dividends and Bank Capital in the Financial Crisis of 2007-2009
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2009
L T Al-Kayed
Dividend payout policy of Islamic vs conventional banks: case of Saudi Arabia
International Journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern Finance and Management , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 128 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
RANK
778,745
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies