Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Disaggregation and Equity-Based Pay Contracts

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 13 May 2025

Young Jun Cho

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Date Written: December 26, 2023

Abstract

We study the role of segment disaggregation in equity-based pay contracts in diversified firms. Disaggregated segment disclosures can improve the observability of managerial actions in internal capital markets and thus increase implicit incentives for managers to allocate resources as desired by shareholders, substituting for explicit incentives provided to CEOs. We use the adoption of SFAS 131 as an identification strategy and find that firms affected by this segment reporting mandate significantly decreased the provision of equity-based incentives in the post-adoption period, especially more for firms with higher operating volatilities. This effect is also more pronounced for firms with weaker board monitoring in the pre-adoption period but with stronger external monitoring in the post-adoption period. Overall, our results suggest that disaggregated segment disclosures reduce the use of equity-based pay contracts in diversified firms by enhancing the monitoring of managers.

Keywords: Segment Disclosure, Diversified Firms, SFAS 131, Equity-Based Pay, Flow Delta, Agency Costs

JEL Classification: D80, J30, L20, M12

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Young Jun and Seo, Hojun, Segment Disaggregation and Equity-Based Pay Contracts (December 26, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4664902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4664902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
B Akins
Financial reporting quality and uncertainty about credit risk among ratings agencies , volume 93 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
W Bailey , H Li , C X Mao , R Zhong
Regulation fair disclosure and earnings information: Market, analyst, and corporate responses
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2487 - 2514 Posted: 2003
D A Bens , P G Berger , S J Monahan
Discretionary disclosure in financial reporting: An examination comparing internal firm data to externally reported segment data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
475,518
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies