Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiduciary Duty and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Corporate Opportunity Waiver

55 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Naomi Boyd

West Virginia University

Shenru Li

West Virginia University

He (Helen) Wang

West Virginia University - Department of Finance

Xianjue Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 14, 2023

Abstract

Examining whether corporate social responsibility (CSR) aligns with shareholder interests or is a result of agency conflicts, we utilize the staggered adoption of state-level corporate opportunity waiver (COW) laws, which potentially weaken the fiduciary duty of loyalty of directors and officers and intensify agency conflicts. Employing a difference-in-differences analysis, we find a significant decrease in CSR after the adoption of COW laws. This decrease is more pronounced in firms with weaker corporate governance, more external opportunities for directors and officers, and less incentivized CEOs. Furthermore, we find that CSR positively influences firm valuation only in the states without COW. These findings support the value-enhancing perspective of CSR and highlight the importance of fiduciary duty of loyalty in driving CSR.

Keywords: Corporate opportunity waiver, Corporate social responsibility, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, K22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Boyd, Naomi and Li, Shenru and Wang, He and Wang, Xianjue, Fiduciary Duty and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from Corporate Opportunity Waiver (December 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4664653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4664653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
D Amiram , W Beaver , W Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate Social Responsibility and Credit Ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
382,931
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies