Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Event and Old Antidote: Can Ex-Ante Disclosure Mitigate Regulatory Risk?

61 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2024 Last revised: 12 Mar 2025

Ziyi Li

Fudan University - School of Management

Rui Ruan

Central University of Finance and Economics

Yuchen Sun

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of Banking and Finance

Yue Tang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - Research Institute of Economics & Management

Date Written: March 11, 2025

Abstract

This paper addresses the growing concern over the uncertainty caused by unforeseen regulatory
events and asymmetric information between firms and investors. By exploiting China’s Central
Environmental Protection Inspection (CEPI) as a quasi-experiment, we examine the role of
voluntary risk disclosure in mitigating adverse selection problems and stock price distortions.
We demonstrate that ex-ante environmental risk disclosure significantly reduces the post-shock
widening of bid-ask spreads, highlighting its role in alleviating information asymmetry.
Furthermore, we find that the effectiveness of such disclosure depends on the information
supply, information demand, disclosure quality, and corporate risk management capability.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Risk Disclosure, Government Regulation, Uncertainty, Market Reaction

JEL Classification: D8, G32, G38, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ziyi and Ruan, Rui and Sun, Yuchen and Tang, Yue, New Event and Old Antidote: Can Ex-Ante Disclosure Mitigate Regulatory Risk? (March 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4665267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4665267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
0000546&stockCode=000546&announcementId=1 202282705&announcementTime=2016-04-30 Posted: 2015
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis , K J Kost
Policy News and Stock Market Volatility Posted: 2019
S R Baker , A Baksy , N Bloom , S J Davis , J A Rodden
Elections, political polarization, and economic uncertainty Posted: 2020
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
640,233
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies