Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Climate Risk Disclosure: Assessing Materiality and Stakeholder Expectations for Sustainable Value Creation

Arian, A., & Sands, J. S. (2024). Corporate climate risk disclosure: assessing materiality and stakeholder expectations for sustainable value creation. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-04-2023-0236

Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Adam G. Arian

Australian Catholic University; University of Southern Queensland

John Sands

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: January 05, 2024

Abstract

Purpose
This study aims to evaluate the adequacy of climate risk disclosure by providing empirical evidence on whether corporate disclosure meets rising stakeholders’ demand for risk disclosure concerning climate change.

Design/methodology/approach
Drawing on a triangulated approach for collecting data from multiple sources in a longitudinal study, we perform a panel regression analysis on a sample of multinational firms between 2007 and 2021. Inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles, our innovative and inclusive model of measuring firm-level climate risks underscores the urgent need to redefine materiality from a broader value creation (rather than only financial) perspective, including the impact on sustainable development.

Findings
The findings of this study provide evidence of limited corporate climate risk disclosure, indicating that organisations have yet to accept the reality of climate-related risks. An additional finding supports the existence of a nexus between higher corporate environmental disclosure and higher corporate resilience to material financial and environmental risks, rather than pervasive sustainability risk disclosure.

Practical implications
We argue that a mechanical process for climate-related risk disclosure can limit related disclosure variability, risk reporting priority selection, thereby broadening the short-term perspective on financial materiality assessment for disclosure.

Social implications
This study extends recent literature on the adequacy of corporate risk disclosure, highlighting the importance of disclosing material sustainability risks from the perspectives of different stakeholder groups for long-term success. Corporate management should place climate-related risks at the centre of their disclosure strategies. We argue that reducing the systematic underestimation of climate-related risks and variations in their disclosure practices may require regulations that enhance corporate perceptions and responses to these risks.

Originality/value
This study emphasises the importance of reconceptualising materiality from a multidimensional value creation standpoint, encapsulating financial and sustainable development considerations. This novel model of assessing firm-level climate risk, based on the GRI principles, underscores the necessity of developing a more comprehensive approach to evaluating materiality.

Suggested Citation:

Arian, Adam G. and Sands, John, Corporate Climate Risk Disclosure: Assessing Materiality and Stakeholder Expectations for Sustainable Value Creation (January 05, 2024). Arian, A., & Sands, J. S. (2024). Corporate climate risk disclosure: assessing materiality and stakeholder expectations for sustainable value creation. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-04-2023-0236 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666855
 Not Available for Download
77 References
S Abhayawansa , C Adams
Towards a conceptual framework for non-financial reporting inclusive of pandemic and climate risk reporting
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 710 - 738 Posted: 2022
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
Load more
3 Citations
Adam G. Arian , Sudipta Bose , Lotfi Karoui , Syed Shams
From Crisis to Stability: Leveraging CSR for Firm Resilience to Risk During the Covid-19 Pandemic
IREF-D-24-00517 · 34 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 5
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Habib Ur Rahman , Asif Ali , Adam G. Arian , John Sands
Does Corporate Governance and Earning Quality Mitigate Idiosyncratic Risk? Evidence from an Emerging Economy
Rahman, Habib Ur, Asif Ali, Adam Arian, and John Sands. 2024. Does Corporate Governance and Earning Quality Mitigate Idiosyncratic Risk? Evidence from an Emerging Economy. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 17: 362. https://doi.org/10.3390/ jrfm17080362 · 15 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adam G. Arian
Sustainability and Earnings Quality: The Role of Management Control Systems
Advances in Management Accounting, 38 (forthcoming), 1-18 (2024) · 44 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 177
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies