Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unintended Consequences of Enforcement: Assessing the Impact of Internal Control Weakness Reporting on Audit Quality in G20 Countries

27 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Patrícia Pain

Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo

Vagner Marques

Accounting Department - Federal University of Espírito Santo

Date Written: December 16, 2023

Abstract

This study aimed to examine the impact of the enforcement environment and reporting of Internal Control Weaknesses (ICW) on audit quality. Employing a differences-in-differences (DiD) approach, we analyzed a comprehensive dataset comprising 27,457 listed companies in the G20 group from 2000 to 2022. Our findings revealed notable improvements in audit quality following the adoption of ICW standards, as evidenced by metrics such as earnings management through small profits and the accuracy of analysts' earnings forecasts. A robust enforcement environment plays a significant role in enhancing audit quality. However, it also uncovered unintended consequences, whereby the stringent enforcement environment led to increased earnings management through discretionary accruals and reduced the accuracy of analysts' forecasts after the adoption of ICW standards. These findings underscore the importance of effective supervision and the formulation of appropriate norms to continuously enhance governance indicators and ensure transparency.

Keywords: Audit quality, Internal Control Weaknesses, accounting enforcement, legal system.

JEL Classification: M42, G15, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pain, Patrícia and Marques, Vagner, Unintended Consequences of Enforcement: Assessing the Impact of Internal Control Weakness Reporting on Audit Quality in G20 Countries (December 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4666785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Abdullatif , A S Al-Rahahleh
Applying a new audit regulation: Reporting Key Audit Matters in Jordan
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 268 - 291 Posted: 2020
A Asghar , S Sajjad , A Shahzad , B T Matemilola
Role of discretionary earning management in corporate governance-value and corporate governance-risk relationships
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 581 Posted: 2020
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of expanded audit reports: Evidence from the justifications of assessments in France
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
833,930
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies