Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Sentiment and Conditional Conservatism

Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

69 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Daniel W. Collins

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Nhat (Nate) Q. Nguyen

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Tri Tri Nguyen

University of Roehampton; University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Date Written: December 12, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of manager sentiment on conditional conservatism. Manager sentiment refers to widely held beliefs of financial managers about their firms’ future economic prospects that are not justified by available economic fundamentals. Manager sentiment is likely to affect conditional conservative reporting because the decision to recognize unrealized economic losses in a timely manner flows from financial managers’ beliefs about their firms’ future cash flow prospects. We predict and find that manager sentiment is negatively associated with conditional conservatism, indicating that firms report less conservatively during periods of high manager sentiment (over-optimism) and more conservatively during periods of low manager sentiment (over-pessimism). Moreover, the effects of manager sentiment on conditional conservatism remain strongly negative after controlling for manager overconfidence. We further find that asset write-offs are lower during high sentiment periods but higher in subsequent periods. Importantly, the manager sentiment effect on conservatism is incremental, and opposite in sign, to the effect of investor sentiment, which has not been demonstrated in prior literature.

Keywords: investor sentiment, manager sentiment, conditional conservatism, asymmetric timely loss recognition, manager optimism, manager overconfidence, behavioral bias, asset write-offs, asset impairment, capital markets

JEL Classification: M41, G02, G30

Suggested Citation:

Collins, Daniel W. and Nguyen, Nhat (Nate) Q. and Nguyen, Tri Tri, Manager Sentiment and Conditional Conservatism (December 12, 2023). Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
Anwer S Ahmed , K Bruce , Richard M Billings , Mary Morton , Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Anwer S Ahmed , Scott Duellman
Managerial Overconfidence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
David Armor , Alain
The Illusion of Objectivity: A Bias in the Perception of Freedom from Bias Posted: 1998
Musaib Ashraf , Jayanthi Sunder
Can Shareholders Benefit from Consumer Protection Disclosure Mandates? Evidence from Data Breach Disclosure Laws
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
531,260
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies