Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of top management team incentive dispersion on Non-GAAP reporting

Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics (forthcoming)

Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Hannah E. Richards

Winthrop University

Yuan Shi

Penn State Great Valley

Hongkang Xu

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Date Written: December 16, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the dispersion of pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) amongst the top management team (TMT) impacts the likelihood of firms disclosing non-GAAP earnings and the
quality of non-GAAP earnings. Management compensation contracts are designed to incentivize
executive team members individually and in the aggregate. By structuring these contracts to
have similar PPS, those charged with governance can increase collaboration amongst the TMT.
However, this collaboration can turn into the TMT colluding to make firm decisions that result
in the highest compensation for the TMT. Thus, a greater dispersion of PPS can lead to less collusion. We find that the likelihood of firms reporting non-GAAP earnings decreases and the quality of non-GAAP earnings disclosures increases when there is a higher dispersion of PPS. These findings are consistent with executives that are less incentivized by temporary stock price increases suppressing other executives from eliciting firm scrutiny by disclosing non-GAAP earnings and releasing low-quality non-GAAP earnings. Additionally, we find these effects on non-GAAP earnings are more likely to occur in firms with weaker governance and when the management team has a shorter tenure of working together. Overall, our research provides evidence of the association between the dispersion of TMT PPS and non-GAAP earnings decisions.

Keywords: non-GAAP reporting, Earnings persistence, Top management team incentive dispersion, Executive compensation, Pay-performance sensitivity, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Richards, Hannah E. and Shi, Yuan and Xu, Hongkang, The impact of top management team incentive dispersion on Non-GAAP reporting (December 16, 2023). Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666639
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies