Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Payout Puzzle: About the Payout Policy between CSI and CSR

48 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2023

Christian Sparrer

University of Regensburg

Ralf Laschinger

LMU Munich School of Management; University of Regensburg - Department of Finance

Abstract

An international sample with 7,260 firms from 2003 to 2021 offers new insights relating corporate social irresponsibility (CSI) and responsibility (CSR) to corporate payout. We provide robust evidence that irresponsible firms (i.e., firms with CSR-related scandals) reduce their payout and prefer to cut stock repurchases rather than dividends, while firms with high CSR performance pay higher dividends. Moreover, a pair-matched sample shows that irresponsible firms take more time to announce the next repurchase. Overall, our results provide further challenging implications for the equity market timing hypothesis and suggest that corporate payout serves to control agency problems of CSR.

Keywords: payout policy, dividends, share repurchases, corporate scandals, corporate social responsibility, ESG, agency theory, market timing JEL Classification: G35, M14

Suggested Citation:

Sparrer, Christian and Laschinger, Ralf, The Corporate Payout Puzzle: About the Payout Policy between CSI and CSR. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4666772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
124 References
N Agarwal , A Chakraverty
Growth opportunities, information asymmetry, and dividend payout: Evidence from mandatory IFRS adoption
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , p. 113 - 139 Posted: 2023
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
678
RANK
267,591
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies