Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Diverse View on Board Diversity

67 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 20 Sep 2025

Vyacheslav Fos

Boston College - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Wei Jiang

Emory University Goizueta Business School; ECGI; NBER

Huasheng Nie

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Finance Area

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

Using a newly constructed comprehensive database spanning 2000-2022, we show that demographically diverse directors make a positive or neutral contribution to the professional diversity of US corporate boards. Such relations hold based on plausibly exogenous variations from the California gender quota and George Floyd shocks. 
Relative to other candidates, Gender/racial minority candidates were equally or less likely to be appointed to boards from the potential pool, but became significantly more favored toward the end of the sample period. Once appointed, they face less negative attrition and are often poached to higher places. During periods of heightened uncertainty, skill diversity matters most for firm performance.

Keywords: Board Diversity, Demographic diversity, Viewpoint diversity, Crisis Management., Professional Diversity

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Fos, Vyacheslav and Jiang, Wei and Nie, Huasheng, A Diverse View on Board Diversity (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4667857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4667857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The Changing of the Boards: The Impact on Firm Valuation of Mandated Female Board Representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
728
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,412
RANK
80,465
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies