Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could Equity Pledge Foster Collusion between Major Shareholders and Executives?

10 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Lie Shen

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Erxia Tian

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

Using the data of China's listed A-share companies from 2007 to 2021, we find that major shareholders' equity pledge positively relates to executives' perquisite consumption. This relationship is particularly pronounced when major shareholders face higher control transfer risks and executives maintain close ties with major shareholders. The provided evidence indicates that within the Chinese "guanxi" context, a "collusive relationship" rather than a "supervisory relationship" dominates the relationship of major shareholders and executives after the equity pledge.

Keywords: Major Shareholder, Equity pledge, Perquisite Consumption, Collusion

Suggested Citation:

Shen, Lie and Tian, Erxia, Could Equity Pledge Foster Collusion between Major Shareholders and Executives?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4668879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4668879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
271
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies