Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Seed Financing

2025 U. Ill. L. Rev. __ (forthcoming)

49 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023

Gad Weiss

NYU Law

Date Written: December 18, 2023

Abstract

Startups’ earliest investors frequently compromise on the extent of control rights they possess. Their investment terms do not afford them the same degree of contractual controls that later-stage investors have, and the securities that they hold often exclude them, at least temporarily, from shareholder status and the statutory control rights and protections it entails. This inclination to cede control stands in stark contrast to the practices of later-stage startup investors, who rely more heavily on investor control to mitigate firm-specific risks. This study introduces a novel framework for understanding these early-stage governance structures. It emphasizes the distinctive factors that make investor control more costly and less valuable for startups’ earliest investors than their later-stage counterparts despite the greater risks and uncertainties associated with earlier investments. These factors include the substantial information imbalance favoring entrepreneurs during the very early stage and the complex interplay between control and entrepreneurial incentives. Collectively, these elements shape the rationale behind early investors' tendency to grant entrepreneurs more flexibility and contribute to the widespread utilization of deferred equity instruments in early-stage financing.

Keywords: Venture Capital, Startups, Seed Investments, Early Stage Financing, Angels, Entrepreneurship, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Weiss, Gad, A Theory of Seed Financing (December 18, 2023). 2025 U. Ill. L. Rev. __ (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4668015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4668015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Gilson
, p. 1076 - 1077
Id
Posted: 1077
See discussion infra notes 239-242 and text
Gilson
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,227
RANK
147,865
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies