Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy Unpredictability and Corporate Tax Strategies

66 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Yuying Sun

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science (AMSS)

Shouyang Wang

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Center for Forecasting Science; Academy of Mathematics and Systems Sciences

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Yao Yue

Agricultural Bank of China

Date Written: February 13, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how exposure to tax policy uncertainty affects corporate tax avoidance behaviors. Using a comprehensive sample of US public firms from 2002-2020, we quantify firm-level tax policy risk (TPR) based on the frequency of tax discussions in quarterly earnings calls. Our empirical analysis shows that higher exposure to unpredictable tax changes leads firms to engage in greater income shifting and tax planning activities. The results are economically significant and robust to addressing endogeneity concerns. This relationship is amplified for firms with financial flexibility, earnings management expertise, and competitiveness that allow them to exploit tax planning opportunities. Overall, our findings highlight tax policy unpredictability as a key driver of corporate tax strategies.

Keywords: corporate tax avoidance, tax policy uncertainty, income shifting, tax planning, risk management

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Yuying and Wang, Shouyang and Wu, Kai and Yue, Yao, Tax Policy Unpredictability and Corporate Tax Strategies (February 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4669959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4669959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with compustat data: Implications for finance research
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2008
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
682
RANK
609,870
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies