Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt maturity, cash flow volatility and political affiliation in China

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Mustafa Caglayan

Heriot-Watt University - School of Management and Languages

Simona Mateut

Nottingham University Business School

Piercarlo Zanchettin

University of Leicester

Date Written: December 19, 2023

Abstract

Using a large dataset with over half a million observations for 161 thousand Chinese firms, we examine the role of political affiliation on the debt maturity of firms experiencing varying levels of financial volatility. Our findings indicate that politically affiliated firms have reduced capacity to adjust their debt maturity when firm-specific risk rises. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this effect is stronger for firms affiliated with local levels of government relative to central levels. We argue that political affiliation can play a disciplining role in environments where credit is controlled by the state and politicians’ careers depend on local economic performance.

Keywords: debt maturity, political connections, cash flow volatility, panel fractional response regression

Suggested Citation:

Caglayan, Mustafa and Mateut, Simona and Zanchettin, Piercarlo, Debt maturity, cash flow volatility and political affiliation in China (December 19, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4669131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Abadie , G Imbens
Matching on the estimated propensity score
Econometrica , volume 84 , issue 2 , p. 781 - 807 Posted: 2016
M Adachi-Sato , C Vithessonthi
Corporate debt maturity and future firm performance volatility
International Review of Economics and Finance , volume 60 , p. 216 - 237 Posted: 2019
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founder-CEOs and firm performance
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
395
RANK
889,053
2 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies