Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Industry-Specific Standards Matter for Capital Allocation Decisions?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

86 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 16 Feb 2024

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Ken V. Peasnell

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Annelies Renders

BI Norwegian School of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether the implementation of industry-specific accounting standards helps capital market participants in making decisions about providing capital to firms. We predict and find an, on average, increase in firms’ capital growth in years following implementation of the relevant industry standard. The increase in capital growth arises primarily from equity issuances and is attributable to the implementation of the standards rather than industry-specific trends or economic shocks. We explore heterogeneity in industry standards and find more pronounced effects for (i) industry standards that reveal new information, provide explicit guidance, or increase accounting uniformity, and (ii) small firms, firms with greater information asymmetry, and firms with greater capital constraints before implementation of the standards. We also find evidence consistent with two channels explaining the documented increase in capital flows: reduction of information asymmetry and increase in financial statement comparability.

Keywords: Capital flows, Industry-specific standards, Accounting standards, Comparability, Transparency, Accounting uniformity, Stacked regression

JEL Classification: E22, G21, G28, G32, K23, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Landsman, Wayne R. and Peasnell, Kenneth V. and Renders, Annelies, Do Industry-Specific Standards Matter for Capital Allocation Decisions? (October 20, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4670503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
C Armstrong , D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
293,623
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies