Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate ESG Ratings and Stability During the Periods of Deep Concerns on Financial Markets

17 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Bogna Janik

WSB University in Poznan

Piotr Płuciennik

Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan

Abstract

This study analyzes the dynamics of returns for companies with high ESG ratings, as reflected in socially responsible indices selected from the FTSE4Good family, across the entire European market during the COVID-19 Pandemic and War in Ukraine. The dynamics of this changes was assessed through the conditional variance derived from Markov Switching ARCH-type models with two distinct regimes. The findings indicate that the effect of market disturbances on the companies from FTSE4Good Europe index was slightly less persistent than on the entire market. Meanwhile, companies from the FTSE4Good UK index demonstrated similar behavior.

Keywords: Socially Responsible Indices, ESG companies risk, GARCH models, Markov Switching Models

Suggested Citation:

Janik, Bogna and Płuciennik, Piotr, Corporate ESG Ratings and Stability During the Periods of Deep Concerns on Financial Markets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4670620 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4670620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
H Asgari Alouj , N M Nia , Sms Amiri
The Effect of Systematic Risk on Cost of Capital Determinants Applying CAPM Model: Evidence from Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE))
Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences , volume 6 , issue 10 , p. 180 - 188 Posted: 2012
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , Sh Yang , Ch Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: an analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash. The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , J Wu , M Brandt
A framework for exploring the macroeconomic determinants of systematic risk
American Economic Review , volume 95 , issue 2 , p. 398 - 404 Posted: 2005
W Beaver , P Kettler , M Scholes
The Association between Market Determined and Accounting Determined Risk Measures
The Accounting Review , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 654 - 682 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
RANK
826,677
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies