Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Business Groups We Trust

37 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Anais Hamelin

Institute of Political Studies, Strasbourg

Vivien Lefebvre

University of Strasbourg - EM Strasbourg Business School

Laurent Weill

University of Strasbourg - LaRGE Research Center (Laboratoire de Recherche en Gestion et Economie)

Abstract

Despite the prevalence of business groups around the world, the debate about the explanations for their existence is far from settled. We investigate the impact of trust on the prevalence of business groups. Using firm-level information on group affiliation, we perform estimations on a large sample of 258,984 companies from twenty-five European countries. We find that higher trust is associated with a lower probability to be affiliated to a business group. Our findings accord with the hypothesis that higher trust diminishes the incentives for a firm to internalize transactions through the emergence of a business group.

Keywords: Business groups, trust, organizational structure, informal institutions

Suggested Citation:

Hamelin, Anais and Lefebvre, Vivien and Weill, Laurent, In Business Groups We Trust. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4670144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4670144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
H Aldrich
Entrepreneurial Strategies in New Organizational Populations
Entrepreneurship: The Social Science View. Ed. R. Swedberg , p. 211 - 228 Posted: 2000
H V Almeida , D Wolfenzon
A Theory of Pyramidal Ownership and Family Business Groups
Philosophy and Public Affairs , volume 61 , issue 6 , p. 343 - 362 Posted: 2006
K Arrow
The Limits of Organization Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies