Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Inherited Altruism and Firm Corporate Social Responsibility

99 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Miriam Marra

University of Reading - ICMA Centre, Henley Business School

Jing Ruan

University of Reading

Lisa Schopohl

ICMA Centre, Henley Business School, University of Reading

Chao Yin

University of Edinburgh

Abstract

Drawing on the upper echelon theory, we examine the impact of leadership altruism on firm corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. Specifically, we follow an epidemiological approach and look at U.S. CEOs’ altruism as an inherited cultural trait of the CEOs’ ancestral countries of origin. We find that firms led by more altruistic CEOs have stronger CSR performance after controlling for firm financial and corporate governance attributes and other leadership characteristics. We further show that the link between CEO inherited altruism and CSR is stronger in well-governed firms and that the altruistic nature of the CEO is not value-destroying for shareholders; instead, it helps to shield stock returns from crises and recessions for smaller and under-performing firms. The results survive several robustness and endogeneity checks, including propensity score matching and difference-in-difference regressions around exogenous CEO turnover events. Our findings shed light on the role of CEOs’ personal traits associated to cultural heritage in explaining their corporate decision making.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Leadership altruism, Upper echelon theory, Cultural Heritage, Epidemiological approach.

Suggested Citation:

Marra, Miriam and Ruan, Jing and Schopohl, Lisa and Yin, Chao, CEO Inherited Altruism and Firm Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
144 References
J Andreoni
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: A theory of warm-glow giving
Economic Journal , volume 100 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
K Andrews
The concept of corporate strategy Posted: 1980
J Antonakis , D V Day , B Schyns
Leadership and individual differences: At the cusp of a renaissance , volume 23 , p. 643 - 650 Posted: 2012
C Arena , G Michelon , G Trojanowski
Big egos can be green: A study of CEO hubris and environmental innovation
British Journal of Management , volume 29 , p. 316 - 336 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Hui Chen , Peng Ju , Chao Feng , XuFan Zhang
The Configuration Analysis of Corporate Social Responsibility: A Multi‐Theory Framework
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 5676 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
572,087
1 Citations
144 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies