Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interconnections of Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, and Their Influence on Investor Attraction

17 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Askar Garad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

erna handayani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Md Abu Jahid

Universitas Muhammadiyah Yogyakarta

Abdullah M. Al-Ansi

College of Commerce and Business Administration, Dhofar University

Abstract

The study conducts a thorough review of research papers examining the connections between governance, financial performance, and institutional success. Employing a systematic literature review and meta-analysis, it scrutinizes articles indexed in Scopus, using WordStat 8 for analysis. The findings caution against a universal approach to governance practices, highlighting the need to account for diverse stakeholders' influences on institutional performance. Identifying key governance factors influencing investor attraction, it emphasizes the nuanced impact of governance on financial performance and institutions. The analysis strongly indicates that robust governance correlates with enhanced financial performance, potentially heightening investor interest in companies. The study reveals patterns in this relationship and proposes crucial areas for further scholarly exploration. It offers a comprehensive overview from 2017 to 2023, underscoring the significance of governance and financial performance's synergy in institutional success.  The synthesis of this information serves as a valuable resource for both academic and professional spheres, emphasizing the intricate linkages between governance, financial performance, and institutional attractiveness.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate finances, Financial Performance, investors.

Suggested Citation:

Garad, Askar and handayani, erna and Abu Jahid, Md and Al-Ansi, Abdullah M., Interconnections of Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, and Their Influence on Investor Attraction. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
K W Abbott
Hard and soft law in international governance
International organization , p. 421 - 456 Posted: 2000
B K Agyei-Mensah
Impact of corporate governance attributes and financial reporting lag on corporate financial performance
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies Posted: 2018
I E Ahmed
The impact of corporate governance on islamic banking performance: The case of UAE islamic banks
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 9 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
H A Ajili
Corporate governance quality of Islamic banks: measurement and effect on financial performance
International Journal of Islamic and middle eastern finance and management Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
541,838
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies