Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial rewards: The Trojan horse of frivolous whistleblowing?

50 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023 Last revised: 1 Feb 2024

Dwight Waeye

Ghent University - Department of Accounting, Corporate Finance and Taxation

Sophie Maussen

Ghent University - Department of Accounting, Corporate Finance and Taxation

Date Written: September 26, 2023

Abstract

Prior literature provides strong evidence that financial rewards incentivize whistleblowing. There are, however, concerns that a major part of these tips are frivolous by nature. Existing evidence on whether or not this is the case is, at best, mixed. Relying upon the revised Fraud Triangle, which identifies the drivers of opportunistic behavior, we identify rationalization as a moderator and align these mixed results. Rationalizing opportunistic behavior means being able to make inappropriate behavior seem more acceptable to oneself. In line with this, we argue that financial rewards have the potential to incentivize frivolous whistleblowing when rationalization is present, but not when rationalization is absent. Besides identifying when financial rewards act as a ‘Trojan horse’, facilitating frivolous whistleblowing, we also offer an adequate solution. Specifically, we predict that adding a penalty for wrongful whistleblowing to the reward for truthful whistleblowing decreases the number of frivolous tips when rationalization is present. Results of an online experiment confirm both hypotheses. We add to literature in business ethics and in particular management accounting and control (i.e., ethical decision making) by showing that financial rewards do not necessarily incentivize frivolous whistleblowing and when they do, that this undesirable side effect is driven by individuals’ opportunism. In sum, our results provide insights on how organizations can include financial rewards into their management control system without incentivizing frivolous whistleblowing and, as such, have important practical implications.

Keywords: Financial incentive schemes, Fraud Triangle, Frivolous Whistleblowing, Rationalization, Whistleblowing behavior

Suggested Citation:

Waeye, Dwight and Maussen, Sophie, Financial rewards: The Trojan horse of frivolous whistleblowing? (September 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
W S Albrecht , K R Howe , M B Romney
Deterring fraud: The internal auditor's perspective Posted: 1984
P Andon , C Free , R Jidin , G S Monroe , M J Turner
The impact of financial incentives and perceptions of seriousness on whistleblowing intention
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 2018
Report to the nations: 2022 global study on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2008
D Barr-Pulliam
The effect of continuous auditing and role duality on the incidence and likelihood of reporting management opportunism
Management Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 44 - 56 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
560,264
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies