Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fishing in Muddy Waters: Mergers and Acquisitions During Uncertainty

56 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2024

Balagopal Gopalakrishnan

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Joshy Jacob

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad

Jagriti Srivastava

Indian Institute of Management Amritsar

Abstract

Using the COVID-19 pandemic as an exogenous shock, we examine the acquisitive behavior of firms during a period of heightened uncertainty. Particularly, we analyze the impact of work-from-home amenability of acquirers, which presented itself as a pandemic-induced opportunity and resilience factor for some firms, on deal characteristics using cross-country deal-level data. We find a significant increase in both deal completion propensity and deal size accompanied by a decline in the deal completion time for acquirers more amenable to remote work. The effect is more pronounced when both the acquirer and the target are more suitable for remote working. Our findings suggest that firms more adaptable to remote workflow, which were reluctant to engage in acquisitions at the onset of the pandemic, engaged in deals more actively in the subsequent quarters with a decline in uncertainty. The novel insights on the acquisitive behavior of firms during the pandemic contribute to a deeper understanding of industry shocks on merger activity.

Keywords: Mergers, Acquisitions, COVID-19, Remote working, Work from home

Suggested Citation:

Gopalakrishnan, Balagopal and Jacob, Joshy and Srivastava, Jagriti, Fishing in Muddy Waters: Mergers and Acquisitions During Uncertainty. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
M Arouri , M Gomes , K Pukthuanthong
Corporate social responsibility and M&A uncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 176 - 198 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
RANK
778,745
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies