Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Governance and Financial Performance of Public Commercial Banks of the OECD

Risk Governance & Control: Financial Markets & Institutions / Volume 13, Issue 4, 2023

15 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Muddassar Malik

Cracow University of Economics

Date Written: December 19, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates a relationship between risk governance characteristics and financial performance in public commercial banks across the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. Drawing on the upper echelons theory (UET) (Hambrick & Mason, 1984), it hypothesizes a positive relationship between risk governance characteristics and financial performance. An econometric model is applied to a comprehensive dataset of bank-director years spanning from 2001 to 2019. The empirical findings provide robust evidence supporting a positive and statistically significant relationship between risk governance characteristics of bank directors and financial performance in public commercial banks (Adams et al., 2010). Banks with stronger risk governance structures and characteristics exhibit significantly higher financial performance outcomes. The implications of this study are twofold. Firstly, it highlights the crucial role of efficient and effective risk governance practices in boosting financial performance in the banking sector. The research suggests that banks can greatly benefit from robust risk management systems, enhanced board independence, and expanded director expertise. Additionally, the findings provide actionable guidance for bank directors, regulators, and policymakers in shaping risk governance frameworks and policies. These insights indicate that effective risk governance indirectly improves financial performance and bank stability.

Keywords: Risk Governance, Bank Directors, Financial Performance, Upper Echelons Theory, Public Commercial Banks

JEL Classification: G34, G21, G20, M12, G28

Suggested Citation:

Malik, Muddassar, Risk Governance and Financial Performance of Public Commercial Banks of the OECD (December 19, 2023). Risk Governance & Control: Financial Markets & Institutions / Volume 13, Issue 4, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
M Almashhadani , H A Almashhadani
Corporate governance as an internal control mechanism and its impact on corporate performance
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 11 , issue 8 , p. 53 - 59 Posted: 2022
Corporate governance principles for banks
Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
687,436
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies