Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simultaneous Choice of Organizational Form and Capital Structure

39 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023 Last revised: 4 Mar 2024

Anton Miglo

Wilfried Laurier University Waterloo

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

This article analyzes the simultaneous choice of capital structure and organizational form by entrepreneurial firms. These two decisions are often closely connected (eg. when a new firm creates a business plan and applies for a start-up loan or when a private firm decides to go public and make an IPO etc.). In existing literature, their analysis is usually done separately. We consider a model that is based on asymmetric information between entrepreneurs and providers of capital that includes such features as entrepreneurial risk-aversion, traditional (limited and unlimited liability) organizational forms and mixed organizational form, and equity financing (internal and external). The model generates new predictions about optimal pairings of capital structure and organizational form. For example the model predicts that firms that use unlimited liability or mixed form should use less debt and less external equity than firms that use limited liability. Most of the model predictions have not been directly tested but are consistent with the spirit of some findings in recent literature.

Keywords: organizational form, capital structure, unlimited liability, limited liability, asymmetric information

JEL Classification: D82, D89, D90, G32, H21, H32, L26, L29

Suggested Citation:

Miglo, Anton, Simultaneous Choice of Organizational Form and Capital Structure (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
S Baker , K Krawiec
The economics of limited liability: An empirical study of New York law …rms
University of Illinois law review , issue 1 , p. 107 - 169 Posted: 2005
Y Barzel
Measurement Cost and the Organization of the Market
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 15 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 1982
J Becker , C Fuest
Why is there corporate taxation? The role of limited liability revisited
Journal of Economics , volume 92 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2007
H Bester
Screening vs. Rationing in Credit Markets with Imperfect Information
American Economic Review , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 850 - 855 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
RANK
856,579
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies