Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Structure and the Efficacy of the Supervision of the Independent Director System

41 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2023

Zheng Ji

Southeast University

Han Liang

Wuhan University

Xiaoqi Zhang

State University of New York (SUNY) - Math Department

Yanqiao Zheng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The paper constructs a theoretical model to investigate the efficacy of the independent director system in corporate governance under a variety of equity structures. We explore the potential benefits of the independent director system in improving the return on equity, while also taking into account its reliance on the allocation of control rights among shareholders. It is found that the effectiveness of independent director supervision is contingent upon the level of information asymmetry between shareholders and manager, which is further determined endogenously through the company’s equity structure. In situations where a controlling shareholder exists, and their prospective interest conflicts with those of minority shareholders, holding the information asymmetry down is not incentive compatible, leading the independent director system to fail. If implemented mandatorily, it might encroach into the rights of minority shareholders, which suggests the independent director system not to be an effective mechanism in the general setting of corporate governance. In many developing countries, such as China, the publicly traded companies are often equipped with a controlling shareholder. In this scenario, our theoretical analysis suggests enhancing the outside supervision and/or the supervision on behalf of minority shareholders would be more effective in corporate governance than enforcing the independent director system. Therefore, the effective corporate governance oversight mechanism has to be designed in accordance with the attributes of local market environment and developmental stage.

Keywords: independent director, corporate governance, equity structure, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Zheng and Liang, Han and Zhang, Xiaoqi and Zheng, Yanqiao, Equity Structure and the Efficacy of the Supervision of the Independent Director System. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
, volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting Conservatism and Board of Director Characteristics: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
395
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies