Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Sustainability Characteristics, Bank-Based Climate Change Initiatives and Financial Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance Mechanisms

79 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2023

douglas adu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohammad Zoynul Abedin

Teesside University

Vida Yamoah Saa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Frank Boateng

University of Mines and Technology

Abstract

This study elucidates the interrelationships among corporate governance disclosure index (CGDI), bank sustainability characteristics (BSCs), bank-based climate change initiatives (BCCIs) and financial performance (FP) through the lens of multi-theoretical framework. Based on a panel dataset of 2785 observations (220 banks) from 16 Sub-Saharan African countries between 2007 and 2022, we observe that bank sustainability reporting framework (BSRF) and board sustainability committee (BSCOM) are positively related to increased levels of BCCIs. Second, the study shows that the BSRF-BCCIs and BSCOM-BCCIs associations are positively moderated by CGDI, indicating that these relationships are contingent on the quality of the bank's corporate governance mechanisms. Third, the study then provides evidence that BSCOM is positively related to FP, but BSRF has no effect on FP. Fourth, we also observe that BCCIs disclosure has positive impact on FP, but actual BCCIs investments do not seem to improve FP. Fifth, the study detects that the association between BCCIs and FP is significantly moderated by CG mechanisms. We identify CG disclosure as the possible channel through which BCCIs and FP are interlinked. Finally, we show that the predicted relationships vary across banks’ operating periods. Our findings are robust to endogeneity and selection bias concerns.

Keywords: Corporate governance, sustainability reporting, board sustainability committees, climate change initiatives, financial performance

Suggested Citation:

adu, douglas and Abedin, Mohammad Zoynul and Saa, Vida Yamoah and Boateng, Frank, Bank Sustainability Characteristics, Bank-Based Climate Change Initiatives and Financial Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance Mechanisms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 Posted: 2020
D A Adu
Sustainable banking initiatives, environmental disclosure and financial performance: The moderating impact of corporate governance mechanisms
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 2365 - 2399 Posted: 2022
D A Adu , B Al-Najjar , T Sitthipongpanich
Executive compensation, environmental performance, and sustainable banking: The moderating effect of governance mechanisms
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 1439 - 1463 Posted: 2022
D A Adu , A Flynn , C Grey
Executive compensation and sustainable business practices: The moderating role of sustainability-based compensation
Business strategy and the environment , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 698 - 736 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Amir Karbassi Yazdi , Yong Aaron Tan , Antônio Mamede , Peter Wanke , David Roubaud , Emilios C. Galariotis
A Hybrid Second-Order Cone Programming and Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Approach for Cost-Benefit Analysis in Global Banking
ESWA-D-24-22324 · 40 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdurohim Abdurohim , Novie Susyani
Inovasi Terbuka Dalam Perbankan Berkelanjutan: Pendekatan Metode Campuran Untuk Mengevaluasi Transformasi Digital Dan Integrasi Ekonomi Hijau-Biru Di Indonesia
DIGBUS-D-25-00071 · 39 Pages · Posted: 5 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 101
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
RANK
872,402
2 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies