Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial evidence on the content and market implications of stablecoin reserve reporting

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, volume 51, 2025 [10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2025.107309]

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

Posted: 28 Dec 2023 Last revised: 10 Apr 2025

Steven Maex

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Stefan Slavov

San Diego State University

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies intended to maintain consistent value against a reference asset (e.g., pegged 1:1 to the US dollar). Their rapid adoption in the absence of federal regulation has raised concerns about the risks they pose to financial markets. In this study, we describe the evolving stablecoin ecosystem and explore the content and market implications of stablecoin reserve reporting. We hand-collect reserve reports issued since 2018 by the largest US dollar-backed stablecoins and develop a transparency index that captures the extent to which disclosures address the sufficiency of issuer assets available for redemption. We find that reserve report transparency varies across stablecoins and over time. Additionally, after enactment of the first state-level reserve report disclosure regulation in 2022, transparency increases for both coins subject and not subject to this regulation. Lastly, despite the relative nascency of the stablecoin marketplace and the reserve report as a disclosure medium, we find that reserve report transparency is associated with greater stablecoin price stability and higher stablecoin adoption (i.e., market capitalization). These effects are pronounced in periods of cryptocurrency market volatility. This early evidence suggests that reserve reporting serves a valuable function in the stablecoin ecosystem.

Keywords: Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, Disclosure, Regulation, Reserve Report, Stablecoin

JEL Classification: G1, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Maex, Steven and Slavov, Stefan, Initial evidence on the content and market implications of stablecoin reserve reporting (March 14, 2025). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, volume 51, 2025 [10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2025.107309], Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2025.107309
 Not Available for Download
60 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
J Almeida , T C Gonçalves
A Systematic Literature Review of Investor Behavior in Cryptocurrency Markets
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 37 Posted: 2023
Proposed Criteria for the Presentation of the Sufficiency of Assets for Redemption Posted: 2023-12-01
M Anamika , S Chakraborty , Subramaniam
Does Sentiment Impact Cryptocurrency
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 202 - 218 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies