Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures and the Cost of Debt Financing

53 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Dionysia Dionysiou

University of Stirling

Sotirios Kokkinos

Bayes Business School

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether the information about capitalised exploration and evaluation (E&E) expenditures in extractive industry (mining and oil and gas) firms is incorporated into lending decisions through the cost of debt financing. Additionally, we examine whether the accounting method applied for the capitalisation of these assets on the balance sheet (i.e., degree of the aggressiveness) affects the cost of debt financing. Consistent with our predictions, we find that firms with higher amounts of capitalised E&E expenditures exhibit lower cost of debt financing, suggesting that the intensity of E&E capitalisation provides relevant information that is priced by the debt market. In other words, capitalised E&E expenditure signals a reduced risk with regards to the future economic benefits associated with such expenditure and decreases debtholder downside risk. We further show that this effect is contingent upon the accounting method that firms apply. Specifically, we find that the positive effect of capitalised E&E expenditures is less pronounced for firms that use a more aggressive accounting method. This finding highlights the significant role that the diversity of accounting methods used to capitalise E&E expenditure holds for debt market participants. The study contributes to the financial accounting strand of the literature and has important practice and policy implications.

Keywords: Exploration and evaluation expenditures, cost of debt, IFRS

JEL Classification: G30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dionysiou, Dionysia and Kokkinos, Sotirios and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis, Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures and the Cost of Debt Financing (December 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4672427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4672427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
H Abdo
Accounting for extractive industries: has IFRS 6 harmonised accounting practices by extractive industries?
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 346 - 359 Posted: 2016
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
K Almaghrabi , K Opong , I Tsalavoutas
Compliance with pension-related mandatory disclosures and debt financing
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 48 , issue 1-2 , p. 148 - 184 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
416,013
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies