Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Capital and Strategic Alliances

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

40 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2023

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Robert Felix

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business and Economics

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati

Abstract

As the board of directors has a dual mandate in overseeing the management and advising it on important decisions, we hypothesize that board capital accumulated by centralized or busy directors in large social networks can help firms handle complex tasks, proxied by strategic alliances that suffer from problems of incomplete contracts. We find that firms with centralized or busy boards are more likely to form strategic alliances, especially contractual alliances that exhibit a greater degree of contract incompleteness than joint ventures. In addition, we identify CEO tenure as a moderator for board capital and uncover business diversification and intangible intensity as moderators for task complexity. We find that firms with centralized or busy directors are more likely to form strategic alliances in firms with less experienced CEOs, multiple business segments, and more intangible assets. Overall, we document that board capital is valuable to firms involved in complex business transactions.

Keywords: Strategic alliance, Incomplete contract, Board capital, Board centrality, Board busyness

Suggested Citation:

Demirkan, Sebahattin and Felix, Robert and Zhou, Nan, Board Capital and Strategic Alliances. Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4673857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4673857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
B Anand , T Khanna
Do firms learn to create value? The case of alliances
Strategic Management Journal , volume 21 , p. 295 - 315 Posted: 2000
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
G Baker , R Gibbons , K Murphy
Relational contracts and the theory of the firm
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 39 - 84 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
778,745
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies