Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Internal Control of Computerized Accounting Information System

11 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2024 Last revised: 5 Mar 2024

Seth Ward

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Center for Computational Engineering

Date Written: June 1, 2023

Abstract

In a computerized accounting information system, accounting information is processed intensively by computer programs so that control measures, as in a manual accounting system when some duties are usually separated and hamper each other, are useless. Mean- while, different from papery carrier, electromagnetic storage media of computers can be modified or deleted without a trace, extending the range to be controlled. In order to ensure the safety and reliability of the system, achieve accurate and complete processing and storage of accounting information, maintain the safety of various resources, and guard against all kinds of risks, it is necessary to establish a more stringent internal control system according to the characteristics of computerized accounting information system, namely management control and application control.

Keywords: computerization, accounting information system, internal control

Suggested Citation:

Ward, Seth, The Internal Control of Computerized Accounting Information System (June 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4674941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4674941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,504
RANK
176,588
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies