Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Return-to-Office Mandates

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024 Last revised: 26 Jan 2024

Yuye Ding

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December 25, 2023

Abstract

Using a sample of Standard and Poor’s 500 firms, we examine determinants and consequences of U.S. firms’ return-to-office (RTO) mandates. Results of our determinant analyses are consistent with managers using RTO mandates to reassert control over employees and blame employees as a scapegoat for bad firm performance. Also, our findings do not support the argument that managers impose mandate because they believe RTO increases firm values. Further, our difference in differences tests report significant declines in employees’ job satisfactions mandates but no significant changes in financial performance or firm values after RTO mandates. In summary, our research contributes to the ongoing debate over RTO versus working from home and has important implications for practitioners.

Keywords: Employee Satisfaction, Firm Performance, Return to Office, Work from Home, and Work-Life Balance.

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Yuye and Ma, Mark (Shuai), Return-to-Office Mandates (December 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
M Angelici , P Profeta
Smart-Working: Work Flexibility Without Constraints
Management Science , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 1680 - 1705 Posted: 2023
The alternative workplace: Changing where and how people work
Harvard Bus. Rev , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 121 - 136 Posted: 1998
K M Arikan , A Masli , Y Xi
Political euphoria and corporate disclosures: An investigation of CEO partisan alignment with the president of the United States
J. Account. Econ , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
K Bahn , J Cohen , Van Der Meulen , Y Rodgers
A feminist perspective on COVID-19 and the value of care work globally
Gender Work Organ , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 695 - 699 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28,673
ABSTRACT VIEWS
94,736
RANK
199
13 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies