Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Acquisitions: The Case of Spacs

45 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2023 Last revised: 3 May 2024

Ekaterina E. Emm

Seattle University

Bo Han

Seattle University

Bochen Li

Monmouth University

Date Written: April 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine one aspect of special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) in the U.S. market, namely their focus on foreign targets. Using a comprehensive sample of 1,737 SPAC IPO filings and 541 SPAC mergers with firms from 32 countries between 2003 and 2022, we study both the geographic preference revealed in SPACs’ IPO filings and the geographic location of the target firm in the subsequent cross-border acquisitions. Our results show that 69% of SPACs with a declared foreign focus are subsequently successful in acquiring a foreign target. However, they take longer time to identify and complete mergers compared to those with a domestic focus. When a merger is announced, SPACs with U.S. targets exhibit significantly higher announcement returns compared to those with foreign targets, with an even more pronounced difference when targets are from China or other emerging economies. Post merger, all SPACs exhibit poor market-adjusted returns. SPACs with Chinese targets suffer the worst one-year post-merger stock performance, whereas those with firms from other emerging economies perform considerably better than the rest of their peers. Further examination suggests that country-level factors, such as investor protection and accounting standards, are significant factors in post-merger financial performance of SPACs engaged in cross-border acquisitions.

Keywords: Special Purpose Acquisition Company, SPAC, Cross-border mergers and acquisitions, IPO, Emerging markets, China

Suggested Citation:

Emm, Ekaterina E. and Han, Bo and Li, Bochen, Cross-Border Acquisitions: The Case of Spacs (April 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Adami , S Mathew , S Sivaprasad
Global SPACs, Working Paper Posted: 2023
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
J Bai , A Ma , M Zheng
Segmented going-public markets and the demand for SPACs Posted: 2023
E Blankespoor , B E Hendricks , G S Miller , D R Stockbridge
A hard look at SPAC projections
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 6 , p. 4742 - 4753 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
981
RANK
472,791
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies