Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of the Benefits of Internal Controls. Case Study of the National Revenue Authority

Posted: 4 Jan 2024 Last revised: 21 Feb 2024

Dr. Abu Kai Kamara

University of Sierra Leone - Fourah Bay College

Date Written: December 25, 2023

Abstract

The benefits of internal controls are tremendous and these can be derived from the effective procedures and processes that an organisation uses to ensure the integrity and accuracy of its financial and accounting information, prevent fraud and comply with laws and regulations. Effective internal control (IC) involves evaluating and improving the organization’s internal control system and risk management practices. Internal auditors are essential for this process, as they provide independent assessments and recommendations in these areas. Internal Audit (IA) also contributes to the organization’s overall governance by ensuring compliance with laws and regulations, supporting fraud prevention, and improving the organization’s operations and performance. IA helps the organization achieve its objectives while minimizing risks, maintain its integrity and ethical standards, and enhance its performance and strategic outcomes. IA also provides recommendations to help management and key stakeholders make informed decisions.
Research findings revealed that internal controls play a pivotal role at NRA in establishing a structured and accountable environment within the organization. By designating roles, promoting continuous monitoring, defining clear protocols, and enhancing accountability. NRA can not only identify and address errors promptly but also ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. This, in turn, contributes to the overall efficiency, reliability, and legal standing of the organization. In addition, having protocols in place for organization’s operations is a foundational element that not only aligns the NRA with its objectives but also provides management with the necessary tools to oversee operations effectively. A stable operation, defined employee roles, efficient information management, and proactive improvement processes contribute to the overall success and sustainability of the organization. The foregoing are benefits that foster strong internal control environment. The research finding shows that NRA has an effective and efficient internal control environment. However, the IA department faces challenges such as the lack of automated audit tools, the asymmetry and delay of information, and the slow response to audit reports. These challenges limit the IA’s ability to provide assurance and value-added recommendations. This research adds to the literature on the benefits of internal control on the public sector performance, but it is limited to NRA and not generalizable.

Keywords: Internal Control (IC), Internal Audit (IA), International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF), Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), National Revenue Authority (NRA).

Suggested Citation:

Kamara, Abu Kai, An Assessment of the Benefits of Internal Controls. Case Study of the National Revenue Authority (December 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675091
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
440
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies