Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Voluntary Reporting Standards in ESG Reporting

41 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Hussnain Bashir

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

David Ogudugu

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law, Students

Ibrahim Pelja

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: December 26, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the role of voluntary reporting standards for the provision of material ESG information. Extant literature suggests that compliance with GRI or SASB requires companies to apply the principle of materiality and disclose material ESG information thereby limiting strategic reporting. Even so, there is also evidence that companies may employ these reporting standards symbolically. We argue that companies that adopt ESG standards report more material information through reported metrics, covered material topics, and reported material metrics. Using a panel data of 614 companies with ESG reports from the year 2014 to 2021 (total n = 3933), we developed a unique data set by hand-mapping the ESG reporting standards followed by these companies. We collected ESG metrics from the Refinitiv database and we used the MSCI materiality map to identify and map material topics against the various ESG metrics. Using generalized staggered DID model, we found that the companies that adopted reporting standards provided ESG information on five additional ESG metrics, covered one additional material topic, and used three additional ESG metrics to cover the respective material topic in comparison with the control group. Furthermore, we found that the positive association between the adoption of ESG standards and the provision of material ESG information is strongest for environmental and social metrics and topics. The results have important implications for companies, standard setters as well as regulators.

Keywords: ESG Reporting, ESG Standards, GRI, SASB, Sustainability

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bashir, Hussnain and Ogudugu, David and Pelja, Ibrahim, The Role of Voluntary Reporting Standards in ESG Reporting (December 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
M Arif , A Sajjad , S Farooq , M Abrar , A S Joyo
The impact of audit committee attributes on the quality and quantity of environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosures
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 497 - 514 Posted: 2021
S Arvidsson , J Dumay
Corporate ESG reporting quantity, quality and performance: Where to now for environmental policy and practice
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , p. 1091 - 1110 Posted: 2022
S Aureli , M Del Baldo , R Lombardi , F Nappo
Nonfinancial reporting regulation and challenges in sustainability disclosure and corporate governance practices
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 29 , issue 6 , p. 2392 - 2403 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
RANK
275,154
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies