Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Listing and Reverse Cross-Listing: The Role of National Culture

54 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2023

Hung Wan Kot

University of Macau

Liang Shao

Radford University

Lewis Tam

Faculty of Business Administration, University of Macau

Abstract

Using global Initial Public Offering data from 1990 to 2014, we study the role of Hofstede’s national culture characteristics on firms’ cross-listing decisions. The results reveal that firms located in countries with high individualism, low uncertainty avoidance, and low power distance are more likely to cross-list in overseas markets. We further find that cultural factors could play different roles in the emerging markets and developed markets. In emerging markets, firms from countries with low individualism and low masculinity are more likely to cross-list in overseas markets. Firms from countries with low uncertainty avoidance are more likely to reverse cross-list in home markets, especially in firms from developed markets.

Keywords: Cross-listing, Reverse cross-listing, Hofstede, National culture

Suggested Citation:

Kot, Hung Wan and Shao, Liang and Tam, Lewis, Cross-Listing and Reverse Cross-Listing: The Role of National Culture. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Zhe An , Zhian Chen , Donghui Li , Lu Xing
Individualism and stock price crash risk
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 9 , p. 1208 - 1236 Posted: 2018
Kee - Bae , Yi Hong , Xiaoqiao Ding , Wang
Relative industry valuation and the valuation of cross-listed firms, Working paper Posted: 2018
Narjess Boubakri , Omrane Guedhami , C Y Chuck , Walid Kwok , Saffar
National culture and privatization: The relationship between collectivism and residual state ownership
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 170 - 190 Posted: 2016
Walid Y Busaba , Lin Guo , Zhenzhen Sun , Tong Yu
The dark side of cross-listing: A new perspective from China
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 57 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
621
RANK
697,608
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies