Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Silicon Valley Bank Demise: Causes and the Path Forward

50 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Sanjai Bhagat

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Finance

Henry Laurion

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 26, 2023

Abstract

The recent demise of Silicon Valley Bank, First Republic Bank, and Signature Bank are three of the four largest bank failures in U.S. history. To address the very real problems of recurring banking crises, the extant literature has focused on bank capital regulation. The corporate governance literature has focused extensively on executive compensation reform. We focus on the interaction among bank capital structure, bank capital requirements and bank executive incentive compensation, and related policy proposals.

Specially, we recommend the following compensation structure for senior bank executives: Executive incentive compensation should only consist of restricted stock and restricted stock options – restricted in the sense that the executive cannot sell the shares or exercise the options for one to three years after their last day in office. This will more appropriately align the long-term incentives of the senior executives with the interests of the stockholders.

Regarding bank capital reform - our bank capital proposal has two components: Bank capital should be calibrated using both balance sheet and market value of equity. Second, bank capital should be at least 20% of total assets (not risk-based assets per current regulatory requirement).

Greater equity financing of banks coupled with the above compensation structure for bank managers will drastically diminish the likelihood of a bank falling into financial distress. This has policy implications for the federal deposit insurance.

Keywords: bank failure, executive compensation, bank capital, insider trading, bank leverage, deposit insurance

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Bhagat, Sanjai and Laurion, Henry, Silicon Valley Bank Demise: Causes and the Path Forward (December 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4676125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4676125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
V Acharya , M Richardson
Restoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System Posted: 2009
V Acharya , H Mehran , A Thakor ; Adrian , Tobias Boyarchenko , Nina Shin , Hyun Song
Caught between Scylla and Charybdis? Regulating bank leverage when there is rent seeking and risk shifting
On the Scale of Financial Intermediaries Posted: 2011-12
A Admati , M Hellwig
The Bankers' New Clothes: What's Wrong with Banking and What to Do about It Posted: 2013
A Admati , P Demarzo , M Hellwig , P Pfleiderer ; Allen , F , E Carletti , R Marquez
Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank equity is Not Socially Expensive, Stanford University working paper
Credit Market Competition and Capital Regulation, Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , p. 983 - 1018 Posted: 2011
Load more
2 Citations
Adair Morse
The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity
, p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Adair Morse
The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity
, p. 1303 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
165,708
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies