Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Externality of Paid Analysts

Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics, 2023

37 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Jihye Yoo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

Using a hand-collected dataset of paid analysts and their earnings forecasts, this study examines the role of paid analysts in capital markets. Paid analysts tend to make more accurate earnings forecasts for the industry counterparts of their paying companies, compared with their non-industry counterparts after they are paid for providing forecasting services. The positive effect of appointing a paid analyst on earnings forecast accuracy for non-paying companies in the same industry (relative to those not in the same industry) is stronger when the paying companies have a weaker information environment and for analysts who have less industry-specific knowledge. Together, the findings of this study support the conjecture that having access to the private information of paying companies creates a positive information externality that enhances paid analysts’ earnings forecasting performance for non-paying companies.

Keywords: Forecast, Analysts, Accuracy, Information Externality

Suggested Citation:

Tsang, Albert and Yoo, Jihye, The Information Externality of Paid Analysts (October 31, 2023). Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Alford , P Berger
A simultaneous equations analysis of forecast accuracy, analyst following and trading volume
Journal of Accounting, Auditing Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 219 - 240 Posted: 1999
D Anantharaman , A Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
RANK
791,953
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies