Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and the Readability of 10-K Reports

60 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023

G.M Wali Ullah

Flinders University

Christiana Osei Bonsu

Australian Institute of Business

Mohammad Abdullah

Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin (UniSZA)

Sajal Dey

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between customer concentration and the readability of firm disclosures in their 10-K reports. With a large US sample of 9,554 firms from 1994 to 2020, we find that supplier firms with a more concentrated customer base have a reduced quality of 10-K reports. This negative association is more pronounced for suppliers paying excess CEO compensation, facing lower customer switching costs, reporting poor financial performance, and making higher relationship-specific investments. We mitigate endogeneity problems using propensity score matching, entropy balancing and instrumental variables, and find our results to be robust to alternative proxies of both customer concentration and 10-K report readability. Our findings provide robust empirical evidence that suppliers with a highly concentrated customer base produce less readable financial information

Keywords: Customer concentration, 10-K reports, readability, customer-supplier relationship

Suggested Citation:

Ullah, G.M Wali and Osei Bonsu, Christiana and Abdullah, Mohammad and Dey, Sajal, Customer Concentration and the Readability of 10-K Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , M M Hasan , B Eulaiwi
Third-party auditor liability and financial restatements
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2022
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
S Baiman , P E Fischer , M V Rajan
Performance measurement and design in supply chains
Management Science , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 188 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
322,813
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies