Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Gender Diversity, Firm Risk, and the Intermediate Mechanisms: A Meta-Analysis

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Sylvia Maxfield

Providence College - School of Business

Liu Wang

Providence College - School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

The primary focus of this meta-analysis is to synthesize previously discordant findings on the relationship between board gender diversity (BGD) and different types of firm risk and to explore potential moderating and mediating mechanisms underlying these relationships. We statistically combine the results from 193 studies and find a negative association between BGD and firm risk. Further investigation indicates that different measures of risk lead to systematically different effect sizes. Our MASEM analysis reveals that BGD’s impact on risk operates primarily through the monitoring rather than advising function of the board. Regarding the moderating role of national institutions, we find that several aspects of the national institutional context (e.g., investor protection, gender equality, and national culture) influence the relationship between BGD and different types of risk. Overall, our results suggest that agency theory has more explanatory power than resource dependence theory for understanding the association between BGD and risk, and women’s board representation is more likely to reduce downside risk than upside risk. Our moderating effect analysis also highlights interesting avenues for further research on the interplay of BGD and different risks in national environments with varying institutional attributes. In addition, our meta-analysis offers important practical implications for corporate risk management, suggesting that BGD significantly mitigates downside risks associated with poor corporate transparency without stifling board support for corporate decisions shaping future growth potential. In an era of rising board vulnerability to litigation for insufficient transparency, this study contributes evidence supporting trends toward greater gender diversity.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Gender Diversity, Firm Risk, Meta-Analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Maxfield, Sylvia and Wang, Liu, Board Gender Diversity, Firm Risk, and the Intermediate Mechanisms: A Meta-Analysis (November 1, 2023). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
G Charness , U Gneezy
Strong evidence for gender differences in risk taking
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 58 Posted: 2012
G Chen , C Crossland , S Huang
Female board representation and corporate acquisition intensity
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 313 Posted: 2016
L H Chen , J Gramlich , K A Houser
The effects of board gender diversity on a firm's risk strategies
Accounting & Finance , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 991 - 1031 Posted: 2019
J Chen , W S Leung , W Song , M Goergen
When Women Are on Boards, Male CEOs Are Less Overconfident
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Simona Cosma , Valerio Potì , Giuseppe Rimo
Green But Not Blind! The Impact of Female Directors on Biodiversity and Environmental Risks in Banks
JFS-D-25-00192 · 36 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 5 May 2025 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,655
RANK
420,501
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies