Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Accounting and Reporting: Searching for a Viable Framework in Public Healthcare Organizations

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 10

50 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2024

Salvatore Russo

Ca Foscari University of Venice

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

Context. Public healthcare organizations (PHOs) have recently been involved in measures to promote sustainability and bear witness to their work. Hence, accounting has become a handy tool for reporting and informing stakeholders.
Aims. From a theoretical perspective, the paper focuses on the analysis of sustainability factors in public healthcare organizations. Considering the current gap in the literature on the application of sustainability measures in the health sector, the paper aims to offer an advancement in this field and to put forward a proposal for the construction of a possible sustainability reporting model capable of reporting on the public value created. In particular, it investigates how sustainability practices can influence the accounting aspects and are declined through actions aimed at balancing different levels ranging from governance to social and environmental factors.
Methodology. The paper consists of two parts, one on a theoretical basis and the other on an
empirical basis. The theoretical basis includes a literature review for constructing a framework
related to sustainability advancement in healthcare. The second part is devoted to a case study of
building a sustainability report in a public hospital.
Results. A sustainability report, with its stakeholder-centred approach and materiality analysis, can
help to understand the needs and improve communication with patients, their families, employees,
society and institutions. This is even more accurate for the hospitals that integrate research and
teaching into the assistance activity and, consequently, must also interface with the needs of
prominent stakeholders such as universities. Sustainability reporting also allows for better
management of environmental, social, and governance risks, granting a deeper understanding of the impact of its internal processes and strategies and creating a corporate culture intended as a “real” emancipatory change in thinking and performing activities.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Healthcare, Accountability

JEL Classification: M41, H75, H83

Suggested Citation:

Russo, Salvatore, Sustainability Accounting and Reporting: Searching for a Viable Framework in Public Healthcare Organizations (December 29, 2023). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies