Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Performance

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting (Forthcoming)

53 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Wanyu (Tina) Chen

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Janus Jian Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Date Written: December 14, 2023

Abstract

Internal governance is the process by which vice presidents use their influence with the chief executive officer (CEO) to impact the firm’s direction and policy. This study examines the effect of internal governance on corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. Based on a large sample of U.S. firms and after controlling for various CEO incentives, corporate governance, and other determinants of CSR performance, we find that more effective internal governance is associated with a better CSR performance. These results are robust to alternative internal governance and CSR measures, alternative samples, and various approaches that mitigate potential endogeneity problems. Further analysis shows that the effect of internal governance on CSR performance is more pronounced when (a) the CEO is subject to more intensive monitoring, b) vice presidents are more powerful, (c) firms experience less short-term financial performance pressure, and (d) they face stronger product market competition. This study advances our understanding of corporate governance’s effect on CSR by showing the importance of internal governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Internal Governance; Mutual Monitoring; Corporate Social Responsibility; Corporate Executives; Managerial Horizon; Power; Agency Problems; Financial Pressures; Product Market Competition

JEL Classification: G34; M14; M52

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wanyu (Tina) and Zhang, Janus Jian and Zhou, Gaoguang, Internal Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Performance (December 14, 2023). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4678001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4678001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
F Allen , D Gale , X Vives
Corporate governance and competition
Corporate governance: Theoretical and empirical perspectives , p. 23 - 90 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
556,453
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies