Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Cut and Jobs Act and its Impact on Nonprofit Organizations

31 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Andrew Gross

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Date Written: December 30, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the excise tax on nonprofit employee compensation in excess of $1 million established by Section 4960 of the Internal Revenue Code as part of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017. We focus on the impact of this tax on the nonprofit organization, its mission, and its various stakeholders. Using publicly available IRS Form 990 data, we identify 892 organizations with at least one employee with compensation greater than $1 million. Using a difference-in-differences analysis with both matched pairs and a full control sample, we find that the law was successful in limiting executive compensation without reducing mission-related program expenditures. Furthermore, organizations subject to the tax received higher donations after the implementation of the excise tax, suggesting that donors view these restrictions on compensation positively. These results suggest that the Tax Cut and Jobs Act had an overall positive impact on nonprofit organizations and their missions while limiting executive compensation.

Keywords: Nonprofit, executive compensation, taxation of nonprofits

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun and Gross, Andrew and Neely, Daniel and Saxton, Gregory D., The Tax Cut and Jobs Act and its Impact on Nonprofit Organizations (December 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4679962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4679962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
I Babenko , B Bennett , R Sen
Regulating CEO pay: Evidence from the Nonprofit Revitalization Act Posted: 2022
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
S Balsam , E E Harris
Nonprofit executive incentive pay
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1665 - 1714 Posted: 2018
S Balsam , E E Harris , G D Saxton
The use and consequences of perquisite types in nonprofit organizations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
653,768
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies