Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Corporate Governance Practice Support the Corporate Financial Performance of Banking Industries in Ethiopia? Panel Data Analysis

Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting: 2460-6081 Special Issue Volume 1, pp 181-191, 2023; DOI: 10.7176/ISEA/S1-13

Posted: 25 Mar 2024

Mesele Shiferaw Kotiso

University of South Africa (UNISA)

Ferina Marimuthu

Durban University of Technology (DUT)

Haruna Maama

Durban University of Technology (DUT)

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

High-profile corporate collapses and failures in early 2000s changed the image of accounting, auditing, and regulatory environments. As a result, the need for implementing effective corporate governance practice (CGP) in corporate financial institutions has gained significant attention worldwide. Effective CGP paves the way for access to finance, lower cost of capital, better corporate financial performance (CFP), and favorable treatment by all stakeholders. This study examines the relationship between corporate governance variables and financial performance in the Ethiopian banking industry. The board size, independence, educational level of board and audit committee characteristics were employed as measures of corporate and return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) as financial performance metrics. The study involves a census of all major financial institutions supervised by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) for six years, 2015-2020. The main finding of this study revealed that the existence of board independence, the presence of an audit committee, the financial leverage ratio and financial institution size have a positive significant influence on CFP. Therefore, this study offers an important implication for developing corporate governance and capital structure to support underdeveloped financial institutions. This makes a significant contribution to the existing literature by addressing the specific context of Ethiopian banking industries, filling a gap in knowledge regarding the relationship between corporate governance and financial performance in this sector.

Keywords: Corporate governance practice, Ethiopian banks, Board characteristics, and corporate financial performance separated

JEL Classification: JEL Code: C33, G01, G21, and G30]

Suggested Citation:

Kotiso, Mesele Shiferaw and Marimuthu, Ferina and Maama, Haruna, Does the Corporate Governance Practice Support the Corporate Financial Performance of Banking Industries in Ethiopia? Panel Data Analysis (December 29, 2023). Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting: 2460-6081 Special Issue Volume 1, pp 181-191, 2023; DOI: 10.7176/ISEA/S1-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4679294
 Not Available for Download
21 References
M G Abubaker
Corporate governance and banks performance: evidence from Egypt , volume 7 , p. 1326 - 1343 Posted: 2017
E E Aman
Determinants of Financial Distress in Ethiopia Banking Sector , volume 9 , p. 2019 - 8914 Posted: 2019
A K Amoateng , K T Osei , A Ofori , E N Anis , M Chizama , A Lui X&fakhreldin , H
Empirical Study on the impact of Corporate Governance Practices on Performance: Evidence from SMES in in emerging economy
European journal of accounting auditing and finance research , volume 5 , issue 5 , p. 57 - 75 Posted: 2017
A Arora , C Sharma
Corporate governance and firm performance in developing countries: evidence from India , volume 16 , p. 420 - 436
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies