Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does being Ethical Pay? Evidence from the Implementation of SOX Section 406

48 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Saurabh Ahluwalia

University of New Mexico - Department of Finance, International, and Techology (FIT)

Linda Ferrell

Harbert College of Business, Auburn University

O.C. Ferrell

Harbert College of Business, Auburn University

Priyank Gandhi

Rutgers University, New Brunswick

Date Written: December 5, 2023

Abstract

Firms that adopt a ‘code of ethics’ targeted towards senior financial officers (CEFO firms) in response to SOX Act Section 406 have higher valuations (Tobin’s q) than a matched sample of firms of similar size, operating in the same industry that have not yet adopted such a code of ethics (non-CEFO firms). Tracing the mechanism, higher valuations for CEFO firms result from both low risk-adjusted rates and higher cash flows. In turn, higher cash flows for CEFO firms result from increased profitability and lower compliance costs. CEFO firms also benefit from a lower probability of shareholder disputes and shareholder concerns. These results are consistent with models of integrity that predict that firms’ commitment to ethical behavior is associated with better performance.

Keywords: Code of ethics for financial officers, Financial reporting, Sarbanes-Oxley market reaction, Market value, Securities legislation, Stock returns, Tobin’s q

JEL Classification: D78, G12, G14, G18, G30, G38, K22, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ahluwalia, Saurabh and Ferrell, Linda and Ferrell, O.C. and Gandhi, Priyank, Does being Ethical Pay? Evidence from the Implementation of SOX Section 406 (December 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4680568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4680568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 Posted: 1998
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen
Asset Pricing with Liquidity Risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 375 - 410 Posted: 2005
J S Adams , A Tashchian , T H Shore
Codes of Ethics as Signals for Ethical Behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 29 , p. 199 - 211 Posted: 2001
S Ahluwalia , O C Ferrell , L Ferrell , T L Rittenburg
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 406 Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Firm Behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 693 - 705 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
484,103
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies