Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Corporate Governance on Intellectual capital Disclosure: An Analysis of Indian Companies

Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Arshad S Riyaz

University of Verona

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

The disclosure practices of a firm greatly influences its overall performances and its reliability. Thus, the firm’s disclosure practices stems through various motivation, hence they strategize the disclosure practices accordingly. This paper empirically explores the critical connection between intellectual capital disclosure and corporate governance variables, while having firm-specific control variables, for a sample of 137 Indian listed firms. Intellectual capital disclosure is recorded by a self-developed index score used on the annual reports of the sample companies, along with an attempt to capture the qualitative aspect (Forward looking and Historical) of the intellectual capital disclosure in the form of semantic properties underpinned by time expectation theory in the annual reports. Diverse and unique set of corporate governance variables within the analysis is associated with the disclosure practices of Intellectual capital. Thus, the research broadens the understanding of Intellectual Capital disclosure especially in the light of its various sematic properties and its challenges through corporate governance.

Keywords: Intellectual capital Disclosure, Indian firms, Corporate Governance, Annual Reports

Suggested Citation:

Riyaz, Arshad S, Effects of Corporate Governance on Intellectual capital Disclosure: An Analysis of Indian Companies (October 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4680198
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies