Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excess amount of Free Cash Flow Creates Further Scopes for Earnings Management: Evidence from some Listed Companies of Bangladesh

The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, 6(1), 9-18, 2016

Posted: 19 Apr 2024

Nilanjan Kumar Saha

Jahangirnagar University

Rana Mazumder

United International University

Sajal Kumar Dey

Sajal Kumar Dey

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Being an issue of acute concentration and multifarious options, exercises of earnings management should be checked from all possible aspects. Availability of free cash flows, an indicator of operational effectiveness and capital utilization for companies, has been studied here to find out the catalyzing role of it for accomplishing earnings management. A comprehension of supportive literatures and empirical observations on company data has profoundly reported a significant relationship between availability of FCF and earnings management. Analysis of accrual earnings, selected earnings management tool for this study, and finding of deviations of such with free cash flows have drawn some meaningful concentrations as well. By combining all these stated issues together and exerting some delicate results, this study calls for such studies further.

Keywords: Free cash flows (FCF), Accrual earnings, Earnings management, and Non-banking financial institutions (NBFI)

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Nilanjan Kumar and Mazumder, Rana and Dey, Sajal Kumar, Excess amount of Free Cash Flow Creates Further Scopes for Earnings Management: Evidence from some Listed Companies of Bangladesh (June 1, 2016). The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, 6(1), 9-18, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4680668
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies