Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Board’s Quality on Performance: An Indian Evidence

27 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2024

Arshad S Riyaz

University of Verona

Alessandro Lai

University of Verona

Date Written: December 30, 2020

Abstract

The value creation and shareholders protection of a firm is largely influenced by the quality and the structures of the board, contributing on various dimensions of the firm’s performances. We measure the comprehensive relation between the qualities of the boards with performance of the firm, by ranking the board in terms of score defined by self-created index for 150 Indian firms in terms of four broad categories of the board quality. Drawing on the classical agency theory, various statistical models of univariate and multivariate nature were used to analyze the impact of board's quality on firm performance. Using two broad categories of performances, traditional accounting-based measures (like Price to book value, market to sales ratio) and value creation-based measures we establish a close association amid the board efficiency and the performances of the firm. Moreover, the association emerges stronger when the efficiency effect is captured by market value performance measures in the form of Economic value added, Market value added and Cash flow value of the company. The result provides a strong support for the previously inconclusive attempts, especially in the light of a self-created and wide index covering multiple aspects for the board’s quality.

Keywords: Board Quality, Corporate Performance, Corporate Governance, Indian Companies

Suggested Citation:

Riyaz, Arshad S and Lai, Alessandro, The Effect of Board’s Quality on Performance: An Indian Evidence (December 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4680150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4680150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
386
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies