Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditing Standards Influence CEO Compensation-Related Risk-Taking Incentives? Evidence from PCAOB Amendment to Auditing Standard No.12

54 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Hyun Jong Park

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 3, 2024

Abstract

We exploit a proposed amendment by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) to Auditing Standard 12 (AS 12) to examine the effect of auditing standards on CEO’s compensation-related risk-taking incentives. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find clients with an overlapping director on both the compensation and audit committees, which facilitates greater information sharing, decrease risk-taking incentives relative to control clients following the proposal. In contrast, we find no evidence that auditors react to the proposal of AS 12. Overall, our results are consistent with an unintended consequence of PCAOB standard setting. That is, while the PCAOB eventually asserted that the modification should not impact the design of compensation arrangements, we find evidence that it did. Furthermore, we find evidence consistent with those changes being driven by the corporate boards reacting to the proposal rather than actual changes in auditor behavior.

Keywords: compensation, risk-taking incentives, board committee overlap, auditing, PCAOB, Auditing Standard 12.

JEL Classification: M12, M42

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Mayberry, Michael and Park, Hyun Jong, Do Auditing Standards Influence CEO Compensation-Related Risk-Taking Incentives? Evidence from PCAOB Amendment to Auditing Standard No.12 (January 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4682888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
Understanding the entity and its environment and assessing the risks of material misstatement , volume 109 Posted: 2006
D Anantharaman , N Wans
Audit office experience with SOX 404 (b) filers and SOX 404 audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
527,931
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies