Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Manager Sentiment in Financial Disclosure: Perspectives of Operational Efficiency and Market Reaction

29 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2024

Yuxuan Du

Tsinghua University - Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management

Chunlan Wang

Tsinghua University - Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management

Jianxuan Xin

Harbin Institute of Technology

Fangfang Sun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yan Shi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The research explores effects of manager sentiment in financial disclosure report from the perspectives of operational efficiency and market reaction. Through constructing a measure of managerial optimism and examining its role in firm’s operation and financial performance, we find that managerial optimism positively impacts the stock return in next year through internal operational efficiency and external analyst belief dispersion. Moreover, the effect of managerial optimism on analyst forecasts dispersion depends on nature of enterprises. The results of this study enrich the research on corporate behavioral finance and offer practical implications in management.

Keywords: MD&A tone, managerial optimism, operational efficiency, analyst forecasts dispersion, stock return

Suggested Citation:

Du, Yuxuan and Wang, Chunlan and Xin, Jianxuan and Sun, Fangfang and Shi, Yan, The Effects of Manager Sentiment in Financial Disclosure: Perspectives of Operational Efficiency and Market Reaction. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4682846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S Arif , C M C Lee
Aggregate investment and investor sentiment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 11 , p. 3241 - 3279 Posted: 2014
A Bagntasarian , E Mamatzakis
The nexus between CEO incentives and analysts' earnings forecasts
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 6205 - 6248 Posted: 2020
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
Determinants of management forecast precision
Accounting Review , p. 303 - 312 Posted: 1997
S Baginski , E Demers , C Wang , J Yu
Contemporaneous verification of language: Evidence from management earnings forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 197 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
618,599
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies