Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Religiosity on Corporate ESG Performance: The Moderating Role of Country Formal Institutions

47 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Omneya Abdelsalam

Durham University

Antonios Chantziaras

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Masud Ibrahim

Coventry University

Kamil Omoteso

University of Derby

Abstract

We investigate how religiosity impacts firms’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and the way that formal institutions moderate this relationship. Within the frame of social norms theory, we employ a global sample of 6,107 companies from 43 countries for a period from 2002 to 2018 and establish a significant positive association between religiosity and corporate ESG performance, where one standard deviation change in religiosity translates to an increase in firm ESG performance of 7.7%. By exploring each ESG dimension separately, we find that religiosity significantly and positively affects firm social and governance performance, yet negatively and insignificantly affects firm environmental performance. We further demonstrate that a country’s formal institutions’ strength moderates this effect on corporate ESG performance, thus lending support to the idea that formal and informal institutions act as surrogates. We find our empirical analysis to be robust to alternative model specifications, omitted variable issues and sample selection bias concerns.

Keywords: ESG performance, Religiosity, Formal institutions

Suggested Citation:

Abdelsalam, Omneya and Chantziaras, Antonios and Ibrahim, Masud and Omoteso, Kamil, The Influence of Religiosity on Corporate ESG Performance: The Moderating Role of Country Formal Institutions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4684261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
O References Abdelsalam , A Chantziaras , J A Batten , A F Aysan
Major shareholders' trust and market risk: Substituting weak institutions with trust
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
O Abdelsalam , A Chantziaras , M Ibrahim , K Omoteso
The impact of religiosity on earnings quality: International evidence from the banking sector
The British Accounting Review , volume 53 , issue 6 Posted: 2021
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
G Albaum , R A Peterson
Ethical attitudes of future business leaders
Business & Society , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 300 - 321 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
687
RANK
517,938
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Social & Personality Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies