Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Pay, Gifts, and the Relative Bonus Size

51 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2024

Raoul Isselhard

EY-Parthenon

Kathrin Manthei

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Timo Vogelsang

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Abstract

We conducted a field experiment to compare the impact of financial performance pay and gifts on employee performance. We randomly assigned store managers at a German discount supermarket chain to receive either performance pay based on profit increases or an unconditional gift in form of a lump sum payment. Our findings indicate that, on average, performance pay significantly outperformed the gift, with profit increases of approximately 8%. However, we also discovered that the managers’ wage plays a role in the effectiveness of the bonuses. The difference between both bonuses becomes larger as the wage increases. Using an external control group, the gift appears to have a stronger effect on performance for managers with lower wages, while performance pay is more effective for those with higher wages. This suggests that employees may react differently to various bonus schemes based on their perception of the bonus size relative to their wage.

Keywords: monetary incentives, field experiment, gift-exchange, relative comparison, bonus percentage

Suggested Citation:

Isselhard, Raoul and Manthei, Kathrin and Vogelsang, Timo, Performance Pay, Gifts, and the Relative Bonus Size. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4684627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
472
RANK
848,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies