Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China Securities Investor Services Center's Exercises and Corporate Financial Asset Allocation

28 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024

he Ren

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

feng Yan

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The research concludes that exercising the rights of listed companies by the CSISC will significantly restrain the excessive financialization of enterprises' investments. The mechanism analysis shows that the authority exercised by the CSISC can improve the information environment and enhance media attention to exert the governance effect. It is found that the heterogeneity of internal and external governance environments will have a differentiated impact on enterprises' financialization levels. By subdividing the types of financial assets and the exercise methods of the CSISC, the influence of the investment services center on restraining financialization is more significant in the long-term financial asset allocation.

Keywords: China Securities Investor Services Center, Governance effect, Financialization

Suggested Citation:

Ren, he and Yan, feng, China Securities Investor Services Center's Exercises and Corporate Financial Asset Allocation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4684262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
C Alexiou , A Mohamed , J Nellis
The impact of institutional investors on firms'performance in the context of financialization
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 290 - 309 Posted: 2021
R Barradas
Financialisation and real investment in the European Union: Beneficial or prejudicial effects?
Review of Political Economy , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 413 Posted: 2017
H Berkman , R A Cole , L J Fu
Political connections and minority-shareholder protection: evidence from securities-market regulation in China
Journal of Financial Quantitative Analysis , volume 45 , issue 6 , p. 1391 - 1417 Posted: 2010
S Bonsall , E Holzman , B Miller
Managerial Ability and Credit Risk Assessment
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 1425 - 1449 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
184
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies