Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Goodwill Impairment-Only Model Broken? An Examination of Post-Acquisition Accounting for Goodwill versus Other Intangibles

45 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Anne Beatty

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Joseph Weber

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: January 24, 2024

Abstract

Concerns that discretion in post-acquisition accounting leads to inflated goodwill balances led standard setters to consider either modifications to the current impairment-only model or a return to the amortization and impairment model currently used for finite-lived intangibles. We compare goodwill accounting to that of finite-lived intangible assets for the same firm during the same period and examine many important subtleties in the goodwill impairment testing model using previously underexplored disclosures. Our comparison of goodwill and intangible asset balances provides no evidence that impairment-only accounting has led to inflated balances. Our examination of potential sources of discretion in impairment recognition provides marginal evidence of reductions in impairments associated with the use of control premia allowed in the accounting standards but indicates significantly increased impairments associated with adjustments for the shielding effects of off-balance-sheet intangibles and for decreases in the headroom between market and book result in impairments that are not currently required in the accounting standards. Our analyses of goodwill allocation by reporting units provides some support for concerns that reducing requirements to allocate goodwill by reporting units might lead to reduced impairments.

Keywords: goodwill, impairment, intangibles

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Beatty, Anne L. and Liao, Scott and Weber, Joseph Peter, Is the Goodwill Impairment-Only Model Broken? An Examination of Post-Acquisition Accounting for Goodwill versus Other Intangibles (January 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4685107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4685107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Aicpa
Testing goodwill for impairment -Accounting and valuation guide Posted: 2013
A Amel-Zadeh , J Faasse , K Li , G Meeks
Has accounting regulation secured more valuable goodwill disclosures? Working Paper Posted: 2013
A Beatty , J Weber
Accounting discretion in fair value estimates
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
D A Bens , W Heltzer , B Segal
The information content of goodwill impairments and SFAS 142
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 527 - 555 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
RANK
140,836
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies