Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excessive CEO Compensation and Its Justification for Firm Performance Before and After the Covid-19 Pandemic

23 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Primrose Zvinavashe

Independent

Date Written: June 10, 2022

Abstract

I examine whether excessive CEO compensation is driven by the COVID pandemic. The article analyzes 2 hypotheses: (1) stock options or stock awards led to more excessive CEO compensation during the pandemic and (2) excessive CEO compensation before and after Covid is driven by weak corporate governance. Using CEO compensation from a sample of 30 of the largest Information Technology “IT” firms, excessive compensation was calculated as the excessive compensation equation and subtracted from the median compensation in our data sample to get excessive compensation. I ran a regression and found that stock options are important, but stock awards are statistically insignificant. Likewise, the results from the regression model reveal that excessive compensation is not affected by Covid and Corporate Governance.

Suggested Citation:

Zvinavashe, Primrose, Excessive CEO Compensation and Its Justification for Firm Performance Before and After the Covid-19 Pandemic (June 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4686894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4686894
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
As can be seen from the table, Total compensation was about $21,902,118 , volume 38 Posted: 2019
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S Ravindran
Executive Compensation in the Information Technology Industry
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 530 - 547 Posted: 2000
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
I E Brick , O Palmon , J K Wald
CEO Compensation, Director Compensation, and Firm Performance: Evidence of Cronyism
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 423 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
592,557
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies