Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Labor in Shaping U.S. Startup Outcomes

52 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Robert R. Carnes

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Kevin Munch

Kent State University - Department of Accounting; University of Florida

Date Written: June 09, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the impact of high-skilled foreign accounting workers on U.S. startup firms. The majority of firms that go public hire at least one high-skilled foreign worker pre-IPO, and 24% hire a high-skilled foreign accounting worker. Using the H-1B visa lottery setting and Crunchbase data covering a broad population of early-stage firms—both those that go public and those that do not—we find that startups randomly awarded access to hire high-skilled foreign accounting workers are more likely to secure funding and successfully exit the private market. IPO outcomes are more likely when startups can hire foreign workers with higher salaries and executive titles, and in tighter local labor markets. Consistent with these workers aiding market participants, we find that IPO startups demand high-skilled foreign accounting workers at a higher rate during their prospectus years. Additionally, IPO startups that can hire foreign workers have lower analyst forecast errors and dispersion, and are less likely to report internal control weaknesses or misstate their financial statements. Collectively, our findings indicate that H-1B accounting workers help improve startup outcomes. As the accounting profession struggles to find workers, we provide evidence of how a source of talent serves an economically important sector of the U.S. economy.

Keywords: H-1B Lottery, Foreign Labor, Startup Firms, Political Economy, High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Workers

JEL Classification: J15, J61, K37, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Carnes, Robert and Munch, Kevin, The Role of High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Labor in Shaping U.S. Startup Outcomes (June 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4686400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4686400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Charting the course through a perilous future
American Accounting Association Accounting Education Series , volume 16 Posted: 2000
S J Anderson , R Chandy , B Zia
Pathways to profits: The impact of marketing vs. finance skills on business performance
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 12 , p. 5559 - 5583 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , A Srivastava , E Wang
Are immigrants complements or substitutes? Evidence from the audit industry
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1997 - 2012 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The influence of labor market power in the audit profession
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 5 , p. 65 - 95 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,444
RANK
256,420
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies