Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Are Acquiring Companies So Reluctant to Amortise Purchased Goodwill?

19 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: January 7, 2024

Abstract

Recent decades have seen recurrent controversy over the accounting treatment of the vast sums expended on purchased goodwill – variously described as a ‘present-value estimate of future rents’ from an acquisition, or ‘the difference between what you pay [for an acquiree] and the assets that you can identify’. Standard-setters have repeatedly sought procedures which include formulaic amortization to represent the depletion of goodwill over time. But executives of acquirers, and their advisers, have repeatedly – and almost always successfully – resisted any amortization. Initially they favoured hiding goodwill. Then they accepted its recognition, but pressed for impairment (writing off) - largely at their discretion - as the sole way of reporting any depletion of goodwill.

At first sight, the executives and their advisers appear to be vindicated by the evidence that amortization is not ‘value-relevant’ – it does not affect share prices. But impairment is correlated with share price movements: it provides stock markets with fresh information potentially relevant to investment decisions - disclosure based on executives’ estimates of future cash flows.

However, evidence from a range of sources shows that, except for under one short-lived rigorous regime, impairment standards have permitted extensive self-serving manipulation. And if impairment figures are misleading, they are of course – literally - worse than useless for guiding investment: false information is worse than no information. The contribution to value-relevance is negative. Misleading impairment numbers also run counter to the stewardship objective of accounting – holding executive-agents to account for the funds of their shareholder-principals that they have expended on purchased goodwill.

This weakness over accountability is very significant because of failures – linked to misaligned incentives and asymmetric information – in the markets for acquisitions, for top executives, and for financial service providers. There is strong evidence that many acquisitions fail to enhance operating performance. Yet in most acquisitions where acquirer shareholders lose, it seems that the acquirer’s CEO gains. Poorly designed remuneration contracts have been blamed. If pay is linked to accounting measures of performance, the permissive impairment regime will fail to hold the executives to account: they will be able to inflate their income. But accounting measures incorporating amortization limit executives’ ability to manage their pay and their reputation. Financial service providers, for whom M&A is a lucrative source of income, share the executives’ interest in masking failure – in retaining an impairment-only regime where reported earnings can be readily managed.

At first sight, acquisitions by Private Equity seem to avoid some of the valuation and agency problems associated with listed companies. But recent developments have led to similar problems when Private Equity ‘sell portfolio companies to themselves’ – transfer them between funds they control.

Keywords: goodwill accounting, goodwill amortisation, goodwill impairment, accounting standards, accounting manipulation

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, L15, L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Meeks, Geoff, Why Are Acquiring Companies So Reluctant to Amortise Purchased Goodwill? (January 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4686619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4686619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Aaa
American Accounting Association Committee on Accounting and Auditing Measurement, 1989-90 , volume 5 , p. 81 - 105 Posted: 1991
Aaa
The FASB's conceptual framework for financial reporting: a critical analysis. Financial Accounting Standards Committee
AAA. Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 238 Posted: 2007
A Amel-Zadeh , J Faasse , K Li , G Meeks
Stewardship and value-relevance in accounting for the depletion of purchased goodwill Posted: 2020
A Amel-Zadeh , Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical goodwill research: insights, issues, and implications for standard-setting and future research Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,038
RANK
405,251
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies