Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Islamic Banks use Institutional Theory in the Light of Shariah Governance? Empirical Evidence from a Muslim Dominant Country

Heliyon, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 Feb 2024

Kausar Alam

BRAC University

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Date Written: January 9, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the application of institutional theory (hereafter IT) mechanisms (isomorphism and legitimacy) in Shariah governance (henceforth SG) practices and in operations, as it best illuminates the operational guidelines and procedures for Islamic banks and helps to attain legitimacy. More specifically, the study aims to empirically explore the SG of Islamic banks in Bangladesh from the viewpoint of IT mechanisms. The study applied a qualitative case study method, and a semi-structured face-to-face (individual) interview was conducted with a variety of stakeholders connected with the Islamic banks and SG practices in Bangladesh. This study finds that Islamic banks face pressure from the administration, regulators, and government in performing their activities and functions. More importantly, we find that most of the Islamic banks become used to following one leading Islamic bank, which indicates the presence of mimetic or cultural-cognitive isomorphism. Conversely, normative pressure covers the existing practicing environment, people’s social awareness, knowledge, willingness, and accountability of the Board of Directors (BOD) towards the people concerning Shariah compliance with policymaking. Moreover, socio-political norms and regulations, as well as corruption, have influenced policymaking, the preparation of SG guidelines, and their implementation. The study significantly contributed to national regulatory bodies by exploring the presence of significant pressures of diverse stakeholders. The study has several policy contributions for the Islamic banks and for the central bank of Bangladesh. Notably, this study will help global regulatory bodies and policymakers, to minimize multifaceted pressures, improve SG practices, and enhance the quality of Shariah compliance.

Keywords: Institutional Theory, Shariah Governance, Islamic Banks, Developing Country

JEL Classification: G18; G21; G28; G38

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Dr Kausar and Miah, Muhammad Shahin, Do Islamic Banks use Institutional Theory in the Light of Shariah Governance? Empirical Evidence from a Muslim Dominant Country (January 9, 2024). Heliyon, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4688463
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies