Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Digital Strategy and the Firm's Employment: Evidence from China

48 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2024

Xia Chen

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - School of Accounting

chenglong wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

Using the data of 2011-2020 Chinese A-share listed firms, we investigate how corporate digital strategy affects the firm’s employment. Results show that firms’ strategic development of digital technology is associated with an increase in firms’ total employees. We also find that digital technology increases the firm’s demand of high-educated and high-skilled employees, while it reduces the demand of low-educated and low-skilled employees. Subsample analyses show the substitution effect of digital technology on low-educated and low-skilled employees are more pronounced in highly developed cities and highly competitive industries. Our results are robust to conducting a difference-in-difference analysis and employing alternative measures. We also find that corporate digital strategy increases the firm’s total labor costs, but it promotes the firm’s total factor productivity and product competitiveness. Overall, our results suggest that corporate digital strategy plays a significant role in shaping the firm’s human resource structure; the potential motivation for a firm to implement digital strategy is strategically improving the firm’s productivity or market competitiveness rather than saving the firm’s labor costs.

Keywords: corporate digital strategy, employee structure, labor costs, total factor productivity, product competitiveness

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xia and wang, chenglong, Corporate Digital Strategy and the Firm's Employment: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4688161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4688161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
P Aghion , P Howitt
Growth and unemployment
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 477 - 494 Posted: 1994
M Arntz , T Gregory , U Zierahn
The risk of automation for jobs in OECD countries: A comparative analysis Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
352
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies