Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors Information Acquisition and Corporate Investment Efficiency: Evidence from A Quasi-Natural Experiment

Posted: 2 Feb 2024 Last revised: 13 Feb 2024

Karen Jingrong Lin

University of Massachusetts Lowell - Department of Accounting

Chi Zhang

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Ye Zhu

University of Massachusetts Lowell - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

Using the SEC’s 2016 Tick Size Pilot Program (TSPP) as a quasi-natural experiment and deploying the difference-in-differences research design, we provide evidence supporting a causal relationship between investor information acquisition and corporate investment efficiency. We find that after the enactment of the program, treatment stocks witness improved level of corporate investment efficiency, and the effect is mainly due to curbing corporate overinvestment. We further show that the reduction of algorithmic trading and increases in fundamental information acquisition after TSPP enactment attribute to the improvement of investment efficiency. We also find firms with lower corporate transparency benefit more from investor information acquisition in terms of investment efficiency improvement. Our results are not driven by firms in the TSPP have different level of financial constraints. Our evidence is consistent with the existing analytical work regarding the role of public scrutiny on corporate investment efficiency.

Keywords: Corporate investment, Investor Information Acquisition, Tick Size Pilot Program

JEL Classification: G14, G31, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Karen Jingrong and Zhang, Chi and Zhu, Ye, Investors Information Acquisition and Corporate Investment Efficiency: Evidence from A Quasi-Natural Experiment (November 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4689103
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
344
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies