Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Leveraging Reputation? The Misuse of Low-Cost Activism

83 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2024 Last revised: 9 Feb 2024

Mingze Ma

Saïd Business School, University of Oxford

Wenchuan Zhao

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: February 8, 2024

Abstract

Many shareholder proposals are criticized for being disconnected from the fundamental values of companies. Exploiting this context, we model and empirically uncover the nonpecuniary incentives driving shareholder activists in their proposal submissions. Specifically, we explore the context where shareholders submit similar proposals to dual-class firms, despite strong managerial opposition. Managers in dual-class firms, having control over voting outcomes, advance more proposals to the voting stage. Consequently, shareholder activists target dual-class firms to leverage a higher likelihood of reaching the voting stage, thereby gaining reputational benefits from public attention. Over time, these reputational gains influence the pattern of subsequent proposals by the same sponsors to single-class firms. Our findings contribute to the ongoing debate on low-cost shareholder activism and support the case for relevant regulatory reforms.

Keywords: Dual-class, Shareholder proposals, Corporate governance, Reputation, Bayesian learning

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mingze and Zhao, Wenchuan,

Leveraging Reputation? The Misuse of Low-Cost Activism

(February 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4689164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4689164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
One share-one vote: The empirical evidence
Review of Finance , volume 12 , p. 51 - 91 Posted: 2008
D Aggarwal , O Eldar , Y V Hochberg , L P Litov
The rise of dual-class stock IPOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 122 - 153 Posted: 2022
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
L Bach , D Metzger
How close are close shareholder votes?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 3183 - 3214 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
382,931
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies