Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change Exposure and Dividend Policy: Evidence From Textual Analysis

47 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2024

Viput Ongsakul

NIDA Business School, National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA)

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Suwongrat Papangkorn

Chulalongkorn University

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: January 10, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: Taking advantage of distinctive text-based measures of climate policy uncertainty and firm-specific exposure to climate change, we examine the impact of firm-specific vulnerability on dividend policy.

Design/Methodology/Approach: To mitigate endogeneity, we apply an instrumental-variable analysis based on climate policy uncertainty as well as employ additional analysis using propensity score matching and entropy balancing.

Findings: We show that an increase in climate policy uncertainty exacerbates firm-specific exposure considerably. Exploiting climate policy uncertainty to generate exogenous variation in firm-specific exposure, we demonstrate that companies more susceptible to climate change are significantly less likely to pay dividends and those that do pay dividends pay significantly smaller dividends. For instance, a rise in firm-specific exposure by one standard deviation weakens the propensity to pay dividends by 5.11%. Climate policy uncertainty originates at the national level, beyond the control of individual firms, and is thus plausibly exogenous, making endogeneity less likely.

Originality: Our study is the first attempt in the literature to investigate the effect of firm-specific exposure on dividend policy using a rigorous empirical framework that is less vulnerable to endogeneity and is more likely to show a causal influence, rather than a mere correlation.

Keywords: climate change, dividends, dividend policy, climate policy uncertainty, instrumental-variable analysis, textual analysis

JEL Classification: Q54, Q56, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ongsakul, Viput and Chintrakarn, Pandej and Papangkorn, Suwongrat and Jiraporn, Pornsit, Climate Change Exposure and Dividend Policy: Evidence From Textual Analysis (January 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
J D Angrist , A B Krueger
Instrumental Variables and the Search for Identification: From Supply and Demand to Natural Experiments
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 2001
A Azimli
The impact of climate policy uncertainty on firm value: Does corporate social responsibility engagement matter?
Finance Research Letters , volume 51 Posted: 2023
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor Sentiment in the Stock Market
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 152 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
259,334
1 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies