Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Environmental Cost

48 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024 Last revised: 30 Apr 2024

Sanjay Bissessur

Amsterdam Business School - University of Amsterdam

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

Using a sample of US firms, this papers empirically tests if disclosed environmental cost display
earnings recognition timeliness, and how the timeliness of disclosed environmental costs
relates to the timeliness of recognized earnings and its components. First, results suggest
that disclosed environmental cost displays timeliness, but at a low magnitude compared to
recognized costs. Second, environmental cost display asymmetric timeliness, however at a
lower rate than special items, and more comparable to core expenses. Timeliness of disclosed
environmental cost is driven by (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas costs, and is especially relevant
for high intensity (i.e. emissions scaled by revenue) and high impact (i.e. environmental
cost scaled by revenue) firms, and firms who do not have an ESG rating and are subject to
regulatory fragmentation. Using the 2016 Paris Agreement on Climate Change as a plausibly
exogenous shock in a difference-in-difference test shows that the asymmetric timeliness of
disclosed environmental cost is driven by both economic and regulatory risk. Taken together,
results suggest that environmental cost are treated as net operating assets. However, recognition
rates are more similar to matched core expenses than long term expectations expenses.
The results of this paper inform on whether the recognition of environmental expenses as
separate line items should be considered by regulators and standard setter.

Keywords: Environmental Cost, Earnings Recognition Timeliness, Revenue Recognition, Conservatism, Matching

JEL Classification: M41, G38, E44, E52, E58

Suggested Citation:

Bissessur, Sanjay, Accounting for Environmental Cost (April 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S
Are Carbon Emissions Associated with Stock Returns?
Review of Finance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 106 Posted: 2024
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The Big Three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S G Ryan
Debiasing the Measurement of Conditional Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
T E Bakke , F Z Feng , H Mahmudi , C H Zhu
Foreign competition and CEO risk-incentive compensation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 76 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
871
RANK
499,012
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies