Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Promotion Effects of ESG Reputation on Exports: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms

26 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Yang Hu

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Feng Hu

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Jing Zhou

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Kelly Haiyan Zhou

Nueva Ecija University of Science and Technology

Kui Wang

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of firms’ ESG reputations on export performance using ESG rating data and export data on listed firms in China from 2009 to 2015. We find that a stronger ESG reputation enhances firms’ export performance from the perspective of export volume through the use of channels that cater to international consumer preferences and to alleviate financial constraints. A series of robustness and endogeneity tests support the credibility of these conclusions. These findings provide empirical evidence for the promoting effects of embracing ESG principles on export performance.

Keywords: ESG, Export Performance, External Financial Constraint, Trade Credit Financing

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yang and Hu, Feng and Zhou, Jing and Zhou, Kelly Haiyan and Wang, Kui, Promotion Effects of ESG Reputation on Exports: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
B Al-Dah , M Dah , M Jizi
Is CSR reporting always favorable? Management Decision , volume 56 , p. 1506 - 1525 Posted: 2018
N Apergis , T Poufinas , A Antonopoulos
ESG scores and cost of debt
Energy Economics , volume 112 Posted: 2022
D P Baron
Private Politics, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Integrated Strategy
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 45 Posted: 2001
D M Boehe , L Barin Cruz
Corporate Social Responsibility, Product Differentiation Strategy and Export Performance
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 346 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
RANK
672,649
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies