Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Credit Risk Affect the Performance of Banks: Empirical Evidence from Vietnamese Commercial Banks

10 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Lien Vu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Viet NV

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The current situation in Vietnam shows that credit risk can have a non-linear impact on profitability but most of researches mainly focus on credit risk from lending activities, paying little attention to potential credit risks from other activities, especially whose credit activities are always the primary profitable sources. The research focuses on assessing the non-linear impact of credit risk on the profitability (ROA, ROE) of commercial banks in Vietnam. The goal is to improve credit risk management, make bank managers more cautious when making credit decisions, and maintain stable profitability.

Keywords: Credit risk, credit risk management, profitability, commercial bank, Vietnam commercial bank.

Suggested Citation:

Vu, Lien and NV, Viet, Does Credit Risk Affect the Performance of Banks: Empirical Evidence from Vietnamese Commercial Banks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
& Aldoseri , Mahfod
Impact of Credit Risk Management on the Performance of Islamic and Commercial Banks in Saudi Arabia
Journal of Contemporary Issues in Business and Government| , volume 27 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
Amazon Ekinci , Gulden Poyraz
The Effect of Credit Risk on Financial Performance of Deposit Banks In Turkey
Procedia Computer Science , volume 158 , p. 979 - 987 Posted: 2019
A S Alshatti
The effect of liquidity management on profitability in Jordanian commercial banks
International journal of business and management , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
M Abdul , M Muazaroh
On the Nexus Between Risk Taking and Profitability: Evidences From Indonesia
International Journal of Business and Society , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 284 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
345,746
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies