Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early-Life Epidemic Experience and Corporate Ethical Decisions

15 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Yangyang QI

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Xiaogang HE

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This study examines the link between the chairman early-life epidemic experience and corporate ethical decisions. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms, we find that (1) chairman early-life epidemic experience contribute significantly and positively to corporate ethical decisions, which are reflected in the higher level of corporate social responsibility and the lower degree of rent appropriation. (2) Organizational decline positively moderates chairman early-life epidemic experience and corporate ethical decisions. (3) The promotional effect of chairman early-life epidemic experience on corporate ethical decisions of low-education and low-medical birthplace chairmen is significant.

Keywords: chairman early-life epidemic experience, corporate ethical decisions, compensatory control theory (CCT), organizational decline

Suggested Citation:

QI, Yangyang and HE, Xiaogang, Early-Life Epidemic Experience and Corporate Ethical Decisions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W S Barnett
Long-term effects of early childhood programs on cognitive and school outcomes
Future Children , volume 5 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 1995
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military ceos
Journal of financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , P R Rau
What Doesn't Kill You Will Only Make You More Risk-Loving: Early-Life Disasters and CEO Behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , p. 167 - 206 Posted: 2017
C Bethell , J Jones , N Gombojav , J Linkenbach , R Sege
Positive Childhood Experiences and Adult Mental and Relational Health in a Statewide Sample: Associations Across Adverse Childhood Experiences Levels
JAMA Pediatr , volume 173 , issue 11 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies