Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rookie Independent Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from China

25 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Weiwei Mu

University of International Business and Economics

Lu Zhao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kefu Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Yunqing Tao

Peking University - National School of Development

Farid Ullah

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of International Trade and Economics

Abstract

This paper examines the influence of rookie independent directors (RIDs) on corporate social responsibility (CSR) using Chinese listed firms from 2010 to 2020. We find that firms with more RIDs have lower CSR performance. Potential mechanism finds that firms with more RIDs hold more cash, thus reducing investment in CSR activities. Moreover, the negative impact of RIDs on CSR performance is more pronounced for firms with non-state-owned, less financial analysts, and non-Big four auditors. Overall, our findings have important implications for understanding the governance effectiveness of rookie independent directors and improving the mechanism for selecting independent directors in Chinese settings.

Keywords: Rookie independent directors, Corporate Social Responsibility, Monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Mu, Weiwei and Zhao, Lu and Liu, Kefu and Tao, Yunqing and Ullah, Farid, Rookie Independent Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4690756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4690756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
A Al-Mamun , M Seamer
Board of director attributes and CSR engagement in emerging economy firms: Evidence from across
Asia. Emerging Markets Review , volume 46 Posted: 2021
M Bai , D J Cumming , C F J Yu
Posted: 2020
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate social responsibility as a conflict between shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
529
RANK
658,366
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies