Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Education and Mutual Fund Voting on Environmental and Social Proposals

39 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2024

Adam L. Aiken

Elon University

Choonsik Lee

University of Rhode Island

Matthew E. Souther

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Hasan Zafer Yuksel

University of Rhode Island - College of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2024

Abstract

We use the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) program’s growing focus on environmental and social (ES) issues to study the role of professional education on mutual fund voting. We find that CFA-designated managers show stronger support for ES proposals as the CFA curriculum increases focus on ES issues. ES support increases when a fund adds a CFA charterholder, and when a current manager earns a CFA charter. While we find evidence of strategic voting in social proposals, support for failed environmental proposals is informative of future ES risk. Broadly, professional education appears to provide analytical tools that influence manager voting.

Keywords: Professional education, CFA, Mutual funds, Environmental, Social, Sustainable investment

JEL Classification: G11, G23, J24, M14

Suggested Citation:

Aiken, Adam L. and Lee, Choonsik and Souther, Matthew and Yuksel, Hasan Zafer, Professional Education and Mutual Fund Voting on Environmental and Social Proposals (January 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4691783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4691783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
V Agarwal , L Ma , K Mullally
Managerial multitasking in the mutual fund industry
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 79 , p. 65 - 75 Posted: 2023
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The big three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
P Bolton , T Li , E Ravina , H Rosenthal
Investor ideology
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 137 , p. 320 - 352 Posted: 2020
R Chaudhuri , Z Ivković , J Pollet , C Trzcinka
A tangled tale of training and talent: PhDs in institutional asset management
Management Science , volume 66 , p. 5623 - 5647 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
RANK
564,093
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies