Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Controversies and Corporate Governance: Evidence From Board Size

47 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Khine Kyaw

NTNU Business School

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: January 11, 2024

Abstract

We show the influence the size of a corporate board has on firms’ ESG controversies. Our analysis suggests that businesses with larger boards are more effective in mitigating ESG controversies. Specifically, a rise in board size by one standard deviation results in a decline in ESG controversies by 4.30%. Our findings corroborate the anticipation that businesses need the board’s advice to prevent ESG controversies. Thus, larger boards, with more human capital and more interactions with stakeholders, promote sustainability more effectively. Moreover, we find that the effect of board size is less pronounced during a stressful time but is more evident in companies with more agency problems. Further analysis validates the findings, i.e., propensity score matching, entropy balancing, an instrumental-variable analysis, and GMM dynamic panel data analysis.

Keywords: ESG controversies, ESG, corporate social responsibility, controversial activities board size, board of directors, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M14, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kyaw, Khine and Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Jiraporn, Pornsit, ESG Controversies and Corporate Governance: Evidence From Board Size (January 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4691991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4691991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG Controversies Matter for Firm Value? Evidence from International Data
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
P Archel , J Husillos , C Larrinaga , C Spence
Social disclosure, legitimacy theory and the role of the state
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 1284 - 1307 Posted: 2009
G Bai
How Do Board Size and Occupational Background of Directors Influence Social Performance in For-profit and Non-profit Organizations? Evidence from California Hospitals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 187 Posted: 2013
H W Balima
Coups d'état and the cost of debt
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 509 - 528 Posted: 2020
Load more
2 Citations
Anita Mendiratta , Anil Kumar
Does industry munificence matter? ESG controversies and firm value
Journal of Advances in Management Research Posted: 2025
Crossref
Maria Roszkowska‐Menkes
ESG pay and corporate social irresponsibility: Does culture matter?
Business Ethics, the Environment & Responsibility Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
347,387
2 Citations
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies