Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Career Concerns and Informational Stock Price Feedback

41 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Bo Sun

University of Virginia Darden; University of Virginia Darden

Qi Liu

Peking University

Zheng Zhang

Peking University

Huining Dong

Peking University

Abstract

One primary function of the stock market is the discovery of information, which in turn can affect the real economy through helping guide managerial decisions. Conventional wisdom suggests that the secular decline in market friction improves the information content of stock prices, hereby strengthening managerial learning from the stock market. Yet, economic efficiency may decline on net due to reduced managerial incentive to collect information on their own. We examine the generality of these claims and show, both theoretically and empirically, that lowered trading friction may end up diminishing informational feedback from the stock market. When managers face material career risks following negative price reactions, reduced market friction—by enabling stronger price reactions—incentivizes more managerial information production, substituting out informational feedback from the stock market to firm decisions. Also contrasting with the classical results, economic efficiency—in the case with managerial career concerns—would unambiguously increase in a less frictional market.

Keywords: Informational Stock Price Feedback, Managerial career Concerns, Short Selling, Merger and Acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Bo and Liu, Qi and Zhang, Zheng and Dong, Huining, Managerial Career Concerns and Informational Stock Price Feedback. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4691656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4691656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate Governance and the Information Environment: Evidence from State Antitakeover Laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
P Bond , A Edmans , I Goldstein
The Real Effects of Financial Markets
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 4 , p. 339 - 360 Posted: 2012
P Bond , I Goldstein , E S Prescott
Market-based Corrective Actions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 781 - 820 Posted: 2010
E C Chang , Y Luo , J Ren
Short-selling, Short-trading, and Price Efficiency: Evidence from the Chinese Market
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 48 , p. 411 - 424 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
352
RANK
765,896
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies