Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Beyond is as Bad as Falling Short: Board Status Dynamics and Firm Performance

47 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Xiruo Wang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Jiarui Wang

Tsinghua University

Abstract

Drawing on the functionalist perspective and status characteristics theory, this study proposes and tests a theory of how board status dynamics affect firm performance and the moderating roles of board and firm characteristics. Based on a sample of A-share listed firms on China’s Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges from 2008 to 2020, the results show that (1) there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between board status dynamics and firm performance; (2) longer tenure overlap among board members weakens the inverted U-shaped relationship between board status dynamics and firm performance; and (3) the inverted U-shaped relationship between board status dynamics and firm performance is strengthened when past firm performance is poor. These findings enrich the literature on board governance, status hierarchy, and the functionalist perspective. Moreover, the findings have important implications for the effective design of the structure of board status during the development of corporate governance in Chinese enterprises.

Keywords: board status dynamics, firm performance, tenure overlap among board members, board size

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xiruo and Wang, Jiarui, Going Beyond is as Bad as Falling Short: Board Status Dynamics and Firm Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4691601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4691601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
S N Abdullah , K N I K Ismail , L Nachum
Does having women on boards create value? The impact of societal perceptions and corporate governance in emerging markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 466 - 476 Posted: 2016
M Acquaah
Managerial social capital, strategic orientation, and organizational performance in an emerging economy
Strategic Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 12 , p. 1235 - 1255 Posted: 2007
F Aime , S Humphrey , D S Derue , J B Paul
The riddle of heterarchy: Power transitions in crossfunctional teams
Academy of Management Journal , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 352 Posted: 2014
C Anderson , J A D Hildreth , L Howland
Is the desire for status a fundamental human motive? A review of the empirical literature
Psychological Bulletin , volume 141 , issue 3 , p. 574 - 601 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies