Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Much of a Good Thing? Mandatory Risk Disclosure and Corporate Innovation

47 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2024

Shiu-Yik Au

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Hongping Tan

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Abstract

Using textual analysis of 10-K filings for US firms, we find that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandate for risk disclosure has a negative effect on both the inputs and outputs of corporate innovation, with no corresponding decrease in capital expenditures. Moreover, firms’ corporate innovation shifts towards less risky exploitative patents and away from more risky exploratory patents. Further analysis identifies a potential channel for the negative impact of mandatory risk disclosure on innovation via financial constraints. We address endogeneity through a regression discontinuity design (RDD) that shows the impact of exempting the risk disclosure mandate. These results are consistent with theoretical predictions that mandating increased disclosure can have unintended consequences for firms making uncertain investments, such as innovation.

Keywords: Risk disclosure, textual analysis, innovation, research and development, 10-K filings, Item 1A

Suggested Citation:

Au, Shiu-Yik and Tan, Hongping, Too Much of a Good Thing? Mandatory Risk Disclosure and Corporate Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4692033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4692033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of financial studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , P Askenazy , N Berman , G Cette , L Eymard
Credit constraints and the cyclicality of R&D investment: Evidence from France
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 10 , issue 5 , p. 1001 - 1024 Posted: 2012
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
S Y Au , B Qiu , S Y Wu
Do mandatory risk factor disclosures reduce stock price crash risk
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
RANK
605,468
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies