Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flows, Financing Decisions, and Institutional Ownership of the U.S. Equity Market

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 749/2024

73 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2024 Last revised: 26 Jan 2024

Alon Brav

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Dorothy S. Lund

Columbia University - Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lin Zhao

Duke University, Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: January 13, 2024

Abstract

This Article analyzes the relationship between flows to institutional investment managers, corporate financing decisions, and institutional ownership of U.S. public equity. In so doing, it provides new evidence about the drivers of institutional investor growth in equity ownership over the past two decades. Contrary to conventional narrative, we find that equity capital flows into the “Big Three” investment managers have slowed in recent years, with substantial differences between each institution. We also present a framework to understand how fund characteristics and corporate actions such as stock buybacks and equity issuances combine to shape the evolution of institutional ownership, including that of the Big Three. Our evidence reveals why certain institutions win and lose in the contest for flows and implicates important legal conversations including the impact of stock buybacks, mergers between investment managers, and the governance risks presented by the rise of index investing.

Keywords: index funds, passive investing, institutional investors, ETFs, Big Three, stewardship, engagement, shareholder activism, corporate voting, ownership concentration, institutional investors, antitrust, M&A, stock buybacks, corporate finance, law and economics

JEL Classification: G23, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Brav, Alon and Lund, Dorothy S. and Zhao, Lin, Flows, Financing Decisions, and Institutional Ownership of the U.S. Equity Market (January 13, 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 749/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4693837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4693837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Chris Flood , Michael Mackenzie , James Fontanella-Khan
Does State Street Need a Deal to Save its ETF Business?
TIMES Posted: 2021-10-26
See Jason , Zweig
BlackRock and Vanguard, already own at least 5% of more than 2,600 and 1,800 companies worldwide, respectively
WALL ST. J , p. 13 - 16 Posted: 2016-08-26
See Coates
The Future of Corporate Governance
Hirst Bebchuk
Scepter of the Giant Three, supra note 2, at 2 (estimating that "the share of votes that the Big Three would cast at S&P 500 companies could well reach about 34% of votes in the next decade, and about 41% of votes in two decades
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
559
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,896
RANK
113,025
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies