Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR inequality, managerial myopia, and hostile takeover threats

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Weerapong Kitiwong

Chiang Mai University

Sirithida Chaivisuttangkun

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Date Written: January 12, 2024

Abstract

Purpose:

Exploiting a novel measure of hostile takeover exposure primarily based on the staggered adoption of state legislations, we explore a crucial, albeit largely overlooked, aspect of corporate social responsibility (CSR). In particular, we investigate CSR inequality, which is the inequality across different CSR categories. Higher inequality suggests a less balanced, more lopsided, CSR policy.

Design/Methodology/Approach

In addition to the standard regression analysis, we perform several robustness checks including propensity score matching, entropy balancing, and an instrumental-variable analysis.

Findings

Our results show that more takeover exposure exacerbates CSR inequality. Specifically, a rise in takeover vulnerability by one standard deviation results in an increase in CSR inequality by 4.53%-5.40%. The findings support the managerial myopia hypothesis, where myopic managers promote some CSR activities that are useful to them in the short run more than others, leading to higher CSR inequality.

Originality

Our study is the first to exploit a unique measure of takeover vulnerability to investigate the impact of takeover threats on CSR inequality, which is an important aspect of CSR that is largely overlooked in the literature. We aptly fill this void in the literature.

Keywords: CSR, CSR inequality, takeover market, mergers and acquisitions, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: M14, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Chintrakarn, Pandej and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Kitiwong, Weerapong and Chaivisuttangkun, Sirithida, CSR inequality, managerial myopia, and hostile takeover threats (January 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4693194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4693194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO Tenure and Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
J Atanassov
Do Hostile Takeovers Stifle Innovation? Evidence from Antitakeover Legislation and Corporate Patenting
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
L A Bebchuk , L A Stole
Do Short-Term Objectives Lead to Under-or Overinvestment in Long-Term Projects?
The Journal of Finance , volume 48 , issue 2 Posted: 1993
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
640,233
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies