Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Directors’ Information Access: Evidence from Board Risk Reporting

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2024/20/ACC

The Wharton School Research Paper

27 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2024 Last revised: 9 Apr 2024

Hami Amiraslani

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Carolyn Deller

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Thomas Keusch

INSEAD

Date Written: January 13, 2024

Abstract

We examine the antecedents and implications of directors’ access to internal information. Using proprietary data on board risk reporting practices, we document that boards receive more frequent and comprehensive internal risk information when more board directors are independent and when the board chair is a non-executive, which enables non-executive directors to have more influence on board meeting agendas and reporting. We further show that board risk reporting contributes to board effectiveness as it is negatively (positively) related to future firm risk (performance). These relations are more pronounced when analyst coverage complements internal risk reporting to complete directors’ information mosaic. Our findings offer novel insights on the economic role of board reporting practices.

Keywords: Corporate governance, boards, board independence, board reporting, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Amiraslani, Hami and Deller, Carolyn and Ittner, Christopher D. and Keusch, Thomas, The Importance of Directors’ Information Access: Evidence from Board Risk Reporting (January 13, 2024). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2024/20/ACC, The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4693679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4693679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
M Ashraf , P Choudhary , J Jaggi
Are audit committees overloaded? Evidence from the effect of financial risk management oversight on financial reporting quality Posted: 2023
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
S Balsam , J Puthenpurackal , A Upadhyay
The determinants and performance impact of outside board leadership
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 1325 - 1358 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
334,632
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies