Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on Genting Malaysia Berhad

29 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Nurul Ezzati Bairulkifli

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the variables that may affect Genting Malaysia Berhad's performance. Finding internal and external variables, as well as potential factor combinations, that could affect Genting Malaysia Berhad's performance is the aim. Regression analysis and statistical methods were employed in this study to determine the significance of the association between these variables. Analyzing particular variables reveals that operating margin has a greater influence on Genting Malaysia Berhad's success than other determinants. Even while Genting's investigation can shed light on how professionals in this industry should fight financially to ensure their companies' existence and carry on with their operations in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. Based on statistical data analysis, it is possible that the company's low operational margin involvement contributed to its subsequent decline in profitability.

Keywords: ROA, Corporate Governance, Internal Factors and External Factors

JEL Classification: D21,G30

Suggested Citation:

Bairulkifli, Nurul Ezzati, Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on Genting Malaysia Berhad (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4694708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4694708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M M Alrfai , D B Salleh , W Waemustafa
Empirical Examination of Credit Risk Determinant of Commercial Banks in Jordan
Risks , volume 10 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
M F Basheer , M H Hidthiir , W Waemustafa
Impact of bank regulatory change and bank specific factors upon off-balance-sheet activities across commercial banks in south Asia
Asian Economic and Financial Review , volume 9 , issue 4 Posted: 2019
M F Basheer , S Gupta , R Raoof , W Waemustafa
Revisiting the agency conflicts in family owned pyramidal business structures: A case of an emerging market
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
M F Basheer , W Waemustafa , M H B Hidthiir , S G Hassan
Explaining the endogeneity between the credit risk, liquidity risk, and off-balance sheet activities in commercial banks: a case of South Asian economies
International Journal of Monetary Economics and Finance , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 187 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
629
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,198
RANK
97,096
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies