Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on CIMB Bank Berhad

29 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Yi Wen Tan

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

The variables influencing CIMB Bank Berhad performance are examined in this study. The aims are to ascertain the variables, both internal and external, and the combinations of elements that could affect the performance of CIMB Bank Berhad from 2018 to 2022. In this research, by using statistical and regression techniques to identify the degree of significance of the connection between these variables. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, CIMB Bank Berhad faced the challenges which is profitability decreased, and the unstable operational risk might directly affect their company operation performance.

Keywords: CIMB Bank Berhad, profitability, company performance, corporate governance, ROE

JEL Classification: D21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Yi Wen, Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on CIMB Bank Berhad (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4694722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4694722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
About CIMB Bank Berhad
F Adilla
CIMB clarifies 'processing error', says reaching out to affected customers. CIMB clarifies 'processing error', says reaching out to affected customers Posted: 2022-01-27
M M Alrfai , D B Salleh , W Waemustafa
Empirical Examination of Credit Risk Determinant of Commercial Banks in Jordan
Risks , volume 10 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
A Cadbury , L Cullingham
Report of the committe on the financial aspects of corporate governance
Corporate Governance Index Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
RANK
230,777
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies