Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on APM Automotive Holding Berhad

40 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Chong Mun Yee

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

This study looks at the various aspects that may affect the performance of APM Automotive Holding Berhad. The objective is to discover the internal and external variables and the combination of factors that may affect the performance of APM Automotive Holding Berhad. In order to determine the level of significance of the relationship between these variables, the methods such as statistical and regression techniques were chosen for this research case. If certain variables are taken into account, it can be seen that operational risk and credit risk, rather than other determinants, have the biggest impact on APM Automotive Holding Berhad's performance. However, while the change in APM Automotive Holding Berhad's shareholding in 2020 may be one of the reasons for the decline in the company's profitability that followed, the analysis of the statistical data suggests that the company's poor management of operational and credit risk may also have had a direct impact on its performance.

Keywords: APM Automotive Holding Berhad, profitability, performance, ROE, corporate governance.

JEL Classification: D21,G30

Suggested Citation:

Mun Yee, Chong, Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study on APM Automotive Holding Berhad (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4694721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4694721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A complete overview of operational risk management | AuditBoard
L S Aiken , S G West , S C Pitts
Multiple Linear regression. Handbook of Psychology , p. 481 - 507 Posted: 2003
M M Alrfai , D B Salleh , W Waemustafa
Empirical Examination of Credit Risk Determinant of Commercial Banks in Jordan
Risks , volume 10 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
APM Automotive Holdings Berhad Registration No. 199701009342 (424836-D)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
692,403
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies