Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study of Pharmaniaga Sdn Bhd

31 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Siti Nor Aisyah Azmi

School of Economics, Finance and Banking Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

This study focusses at the aspects that can impact the outcomes of Pharmaniaga Berhad. The goal is to discover internal and external variables, as well as the combination of factors that may have an impact on the performance of Pharmaniaga Berhad. To determine the degree of significance of the connection between these variables, methods such as statistical and regression techniques have opted in this research case. When certain variables are considered, it becomes evident that return of equity (ROE) compared to other determinants, has the most significant influence on Pharmaniaga Berhad’ s performance. Nevertheless, even though the Pharmaniaga Berhad financial issue in 2022 possibly had an impact in the company subsequent slump in their performance but it is highlight that the financial issue is not coming from the any fraudulent activities.

Keywords: Pharmaniaga Sdn Bhd (Malaysia), performance, profitability, Return of Assets (ROA), corporate governance

JEL Classification: D21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Azmi, Siti Nor Aisyah, Corporate Governance and Its Determinants: A Study of Pharmaniaga Sdn Bhd (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4694710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4694710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Is there any relationship between the internal factors with Pharmaniaga Berhad performance?
Is there any relationship between the external factors with Pharmaniaga Berhad performance?
Is there any relationship between the internal and external factors with Pharmaniaga Berhad performance? References
W Waemustafa , S Sukri
Bank specific and macroeconomics dynamic determinants of credit risk in Islamic banks and conventional banks
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 476 - 481 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
722
RANK
352,349
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies