Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Nvidia Corporation in United States: Performance and Its Determinants

Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Teh Yun Qian

Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM)

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

The research is focused on the connection between the internal and the external factors with Nvidia Corporation's performance (ROA). The goal is to investigate the internal and external factors that could impact Nvidia Corporation’s performance from 2018 to 2022 in United States. In this study, multiple regression is used to analysis the relationship between dependent variables (ROA) and independent variables. The system applied to run the linear regression is SPSS software. From the result and analysis of the study, the significance of the variables on the profitability for Nvidia Corporation is demonstrated. The average-collection period is the most significant variable that affects the profitability of Nvidia Corporation. This is probably due to the fact that Nvidia Corporation’s credit terms are not strict. Nevertheless, there are some limitations in this research detracted the precision of the result.

Keywords: Nvidia Corporation, company performance, profitability, corporate governance, ROA

JEL Classification: D21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Yun Qian, Teh, A Study on Nvidia Corporation in United States: Performance and Its Determinants (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4694757
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies