Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of an Accountant Shortage: Evidence from Job Vacancy Duration and Internal Control Weaknesses

54 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2024 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Rebecca N. Hann

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Jingwen Yang

University of Maryland - College Park

Yue Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

This study sheds light on the consequences of an accountant shortage by studying the association between accounting vacancy duration—the time it takes to fill corporate accounting job vacancies—and the risk of internal control deficiencies. Using novel data on vacancy duration for a comprehensive sample of online accounting job postings in the US, we find that the time it takes a firm to fill accounting vacancies is positively related to the likelihood of material internal control weaknesses. This effect is more pronounced for smaller firms, firms with less human resources, and firms in industries with more complex accounting standards. We also find that for firms with prolonged accounting vacancy duration, their accounting personnel tend to report lower job satisfaction. Taken together, our findings provide the first large-sample archival evidence on the costs of prolonged accounting vacancy duration—increased risk of internal control deficiencies and reduced employee satisfaction, highlighting the importance of attracting and retaining accounting talent.

Suggested Citation:

Hann, Rebecca N. and Yang, Jingwen and Zheng, Yue, The Price of an Accountant Shortage: Evidence from Job Vacancy Duration and Internal Control Weaknesses (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4695588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4695588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,075
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,704
RANK
47,317
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies