Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top-Down vs. Bottom-Up Index Forecasts: The Information Content of Equity Strategists’ Relative Pessimism

56 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Min Park

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Matt Peterson

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Eric H. Weisbrod

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: May 07, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the distinct role of equity strategists in forecasting aggregate earnings and market returns. Unlike traditional firm-level analysts who focus on individual stocks, strategists provide macroeconomic insights to inform investors’ decision making. We compare strategists’ top-down S&P 500 EPS forecasts with bottom-up forecasts made by sell-side equity analysts. While both forecasts move in tandem, they often deviate from each other. We find that strategists’ divergence from bottom-up forecasts varies systematically with macroeconomic conditions. In turn, strategists’ divergence has predictive value for future aggregate earnings surprises and aggregate stock returns, consistent with sell-side analysts and investors underreacting to the information contained in strategists’ index forecasts. We also find that the predictive ability is concentrated during periods of macroeconomic uncertainty. Finally, a market-timing strategy that exploits the divergence between top-down and bottom-up forecasts generates economically meaningful abnormal returns. Overall, investors and policy makers can benefit when they use both bottom-up and top-down forecasts in combination when forming expectations for aggregate earnings.

Keywords: aggregate earnings, market strategists, top-down EPS forecasts, bottom-up EPS forecasts, financial analysts

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G23, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Park, Min and Peterson, Matt and Weisbrod, Eric H., Top-Down vs. Bottom-Up Index Forecasts: The Information Content of Equity Strategists’ Relative Pessimism (May 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4695279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4695279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor Sentiment and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
S Basu , S Markov , L Shivakumar
Inflation, earnings forecasts, and post-earnings announcement drift
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 403 - 440 Posted: 2010
M Baxter , R G King
Measuring business cycles: approximate band-pass filters for economic time series
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 81 , issue 4 , p. 575 - 593 Posted: 1999
S B Bonsall , Z Bozanic , P E Fischer
What do management earnings forecasts convey about the macroeconomy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 266 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,903
RANK
171,534
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies