Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Admission to the Rich List Drive Listed Firms to Improve Corporate Social Responsibility

29 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Jialan Huang

Xiamen University

yan ashley

Beijing Wuzi University

Libin Zhao

Wuhan Textile University

Danmei Li

Wuhan Textile University

Abstract

We have identified a notable correlation between the inclusion of a publicly listed firm's actual controller in the prestigious Hurun rich list and the enhanced commitment to fulfilling Corporate social responsibility(CSR) on the part of said listed firm. Our analysis also reveals the underlying mechanisms at play, indicating that inclusion in the Hurun rich list triggers heightened media scrutiny. This elevated media attention subsequently motivates listed firms to proactively engage in greater CSR efforts, thereby preempting potential scrutiny and repercussions. Our findings have been validated through robustness tests. Furthermore, we conducted an expansibility test to ascertain the extent of the positive impact exerted by listed actual controllers on CSR performance of listed firms. Notably, this impact was found to be more pronounced in the case of listed firms whose actual controllers achieved top rankings within the Hurun rich list, were featured multiple times, and were subject to a significant volume of negative media coverage. Additionally, our subsequent research endeavors have unveiled that, following the inclusion of a listed firm's actual controller in the Hurun rich list, there is a discernible reduction in the likelihood of subsequent regulatory violations and investigations. This reduction can be directly attributed to the heightened emphasis placed on CSR fulfillment by the listed firms. Our study thus contributes valuable insights into the motivating factors behind the active pursuit of CSR, specifically through the lens of media attention.

Keywords: Hurun Rich List, Media attention, Corporate social responsibility, Corporate violation

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Jialan and ashley, yan and Zhao, Libin and Li, Danmei, Does Admission to the Rich List Drive Listed Firms to Improve Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4696594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4696594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies