Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Audit Committee Member Departures: Evidence Based on Director Characteristics

39 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Wu-Po (Paul) Liu

Independent

Hua-Wei Huang

National Cheng Kung University

Abstract

This study examines whether the characteristics of departing audit committee directors are associated with market reactions when departures occur before and after financial restatement announcements. We find that departures of financial expert directors before restatement announcements significantly signal the risk of misstatement to the market, resulting in higher negative cumulative abnormal returns than is the case with departures of non-financial experts. Additionally, female audit committee director departures serve as an effective warning signal that misstatements are material. Regarding departures after the announcement, we find weak evidence supporting the premise that higher positive cumulative abnormal returns related to financial expert departures are likely when the departures are unplanned, suggesting that market investors distrust current financial experts in the presence of financial misstatements. Finally, we find weak evidence of market investors’ distrust of long-tenured directors when misstatements are immaterial.

Keywords: Market reactions, departures of audit committee directors, restatements, financial expertise, tenure, SOX 407.

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Wu-Po (Paul) and Huang, Hua-Wei, Economic Consequences of Audit Committee Member Departures: Evidence Based on Director Characteristics. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4696189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4696189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
872,402
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies