Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation and Private Benefits of Control: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits

51 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2024

Chaoran Yang

Cranfield University - School of Management

Wasim Ahmad

Cranfield University - School of Management

Nemanja Radic

Cranfield University - School of Management

Date Written: January 16, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effects of derivative litigation risks on the value of private benefits of control. Quantifying the value of private benefits of control using the voting premiums from option prices, we find that the value of the voting premium significantly decreases after firms experience derivative lawsuits. To address endogeneity concerns, we exploit the staggered adoption of Universal Demand (UD) laws across 23 U.S. states from 1989 to 2005 to investigate whether and how the reduction in litigation risks affects the level of voting premium. The results show that the adoption of UD laws increases the value of voting premiums. Our DID results are robust to a battery of tests. We also find that the adoption of UD laws leads to a decrease in the value of cash holdings, an increase in CEO cash compensation, and a decrease in investment efficiency and these effects are more pronounced for dual-class firms. Overall, our findings suggest that shareholder litigation can effectively curb the managerial extraction of private benefits. It has important implications for managers, shareholders, and policymakers.

Keywords: Private Benefits of Control, Shareholder Litigation, Derivative Lawsuits, UD Laws, Voting Premium

JEL Classification: G12, G34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Chaoran and Ahmad, Wasim and Radic, Nemanja, Shareholder Litigation and Private Benefits of Control: Evidence from Derivative Lawsuits (January 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4696573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4696573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
552,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies