Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Interaction of Informativeness, Readability, and Sentiment within Company’s Sustainability Disclosure Shape an Entity’s ESG Score? – Evidence from Germany

53 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Thorben Bonn

Ruhr University of Bochum - Department of International Accounting

Aurin Gaida-Albers

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 17, 2024

Abstract

The integration of ESG practices in sustainability disclosure as well as the increasingly evolving regulations in the European Union and Germany signify a transformative shift in individual behaviors and corporate dynamics. Thus, the focus on sustainability disclosure by German companies has increased, along with the evaluation of ESG performance through rating agencies. Since sustainability disclosure emphasizes qualitative information, it is not surprising that both, management and analysts, prioritize the textual content of such reports. This leads to the question of how textual elements of a company’s sustainability disclosure are related to analysts’ ESG scores. To address this research question, we analyze sustainability disclosure of companies listed in the German Prime Standard for financial years from 2017 to 2022 in terms of informativeness, readability, and sentiment by using OLS panel regression analyses. Our research contributes to the growing sustainability disclosure literature by referring to companies within the German regulatory framework, utilizing state-of-the-art LLMs FinBERT and FinBERT-ESG, applying various methods for textual analysis. The results of our study suggest that a high level of transparency, precision, and comprehensibility of language are important factors in achieving a superior ESG score.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Voluntary Disclosure, ESG Disclosure, Textual Analysis, Natural Language Processing

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bonn, Thorben and Gaida-Albers, Aurin, Does the Interaction of Informativeness, Readability, and Sentiment within Company’s Sustainability Disclosure Shape an Entity’s ESG Score? – Evidence from Germany (January 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4697807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4697807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Guler / Aras , Tezcan , / Nuray , Furtuna , K Ozlem
The value relevance of banking sector multidimensional corporate sustainability performance
, volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 1062 - 1073 Posted: 2018
Claudia / Arena , Bozzolan , Giovanna Saverio/Michelon
Environmental Reporting: Transparency to Stakeholders or Stakeholder Manipulation? An Analysis of Disclosure Tone and the Role of the Board of Directors , volume 22 , p. 346 - 361 Posted: 2015
Diogenis / Baboukardos , Gunnar Rimmel
Value relevance of accounting information under an integrated reporting approach: A research note
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2016
Philipp / Baier , Marc / Berninger , Florian Kiesel
Environmental, social and governance reporting in annual reports: A textual analysis , volume 29 , p. 93 - 118 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,730
RANK
260,398
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies