Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Analyst Coverage and Value- Relevance of Energy Efficiency

23 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Ishwar Khatri

Norwegian University of Science and Technology

Date Written: March 27, 2023

Abstract

Purpose- The purpose of this study is to examine whether financial markets value
a firm’s specific corporate environmental performance (CEP), i.e. its energy
efficiency practices. This study also investigates the mechanism through which energy
efficiency is associated with firm value.

Design/methodology/approach- This study uses a sample of 324 US-listed nonfinancial
firms during the period 2006–2019; data were accessed from Thomson
Reuters Refinitiv. Employing baseline Ordinary Linear Squares (OLS) regression
models, this study first estimates the association between energy efficiency and firm
value. It then tests the role of analyst coverage (the number of sell-side financial
analysts following the firm) in ascertaining the value relevance of energy
efficiency. To ensure the robustness of the results, alternative estimations including
endogeneity and sample bias correctness tests, were performed.

Findings- The study shows that energy efficiency is associated with firm value, and the
role of analyst coverage as an external governance mechanism is positive and
significant on the value relevance of energy efficiency. Furthermore, this study
documents that the relationship is shaped by sustainability-related internal and
external risks, indicating that financial analysts’ role becomes more imperative when
firms are subject to high scrutiny.

Originality/value- This study contributes to the literature by examining the
intersections of energy efficiency, analyst coverage, and firm value. It attempts to
demonstrate how and why CEP and financial performance (FP) are linked. In the
context of growing environmental concerns, the pressure of climate change, and
achievement of net-zero carbon emissions, this study provides valuable insights into
the financial market wherein firms’ environmentally responsible behaviours are valueenhancing,
and governance mechanisms are promising. This study suggests that financial
analysts can serve as an effective external governance mechanism.

Keywords: Analyst coverage, Corporate governance, Energy performance, Environmental performance, Financial market

Suggested Citation:

Khatri, Ishwar, The Role of Analyst Coverage and Value- Relevance of Energy Efficiency (March 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4697277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4697277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
M Arayssi , M Dah , M Jizi
Women on boards, sustainability reporting and firm performance
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 401 Posted: 2016
Asante-Appiah B , Lambert Ta
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
M Atif , M Hossain , M S Alam
Does board gender diversity affect renewable energy consumption
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
RANK
759,678
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies