Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Practices and Corporate Financial Performance: Investigating the Mediating Role of Risk Management with Evidence from the Airline Industry

48 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Sang Baum Kang

Illinois Institute of Technology - Stuart School of Business

Yao Xie

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jialin Zhao

Saint Mary's University of San Antonio

Abstract

The nexus between a company's commitment to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) principles and its financial performance is a pivotal concern for corporate stakeholders, investors, and society at large. Yet, a thorough understanding of the mechanisms underlying the impact of ESG commitments on firm performance still remains a research gap. Addressing this gap, our paper offers a distinctive perspective by presenting investigations into the mediating role of risk management between ESG practice and firm performance with empirical evidence from the airline industry. The airline sector serves as our study's focal point due to its inherent competitiveness and susceptibility to a single, volatile risk factor—jet fuel. Formulating hypotheses concerning the interplay of ESG, firm performance, and risk management, we conduct empirical assessments using regression and portfolio sorting methods. Our dataset encompasses ESG ratings from Sustainalytics, corporate financial performance metrics from Compustat, and data on risk management practices from 10K reports. The two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimator with instrumental variables is employed to mitigate endogeneity concerns on the relationship between ESG and firm performance. Our analysis reveals that risk management acts as a mediator in this relationship. Our study advances the comprehension of ESG's impact on financial outcomes and underscores the instrumental role of risk management within this framework. These results profoundly affect corporate strategists in the airline sector and ESG-oriented investors.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate financial performance, Financial Risk Management

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Sang Baum and Xie, Yao and Zhao, Jialin, ESG Practices and Corporate Financial Performance: Investigating the Mediating Role of Risk Management with Evidence from the Airline Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4698650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4698650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Y Abdi , X Li , X Càmara-Turull
Exploring the impact of sustainability (ESG) disclosure on firm value and financial performance (FP) in airline industry: the moderating role of size and age
Environment, Development and Sustainability , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 5052 - 5079 Posted: 2022
M F A Al-Manaseer , R M Al-Hindawi , M A Al-Dahiyat , I I Sartawi
The impact of corporate governance on the performance of Jordanian banks
European Journal of Scientific Research , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 349 - 359 Posted: 2012
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
W Azmi , M K Hassan , R Houston , M S Karim
ESG activities and banking performance: International evidence from emerging economies
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 70 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,443
RANK
221,251
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies