Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reputational Costs of Connections to Controversial Politicians: Evidence From Political Scandals

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming.

66 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2024

Susanne Preuss

University of Amsterdam

Jacco L. Wielhouwer

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Date Written: January 17, 2024

Abstract

We use the exogenous nature of political scandals to test whether political connections in the form of campaign contributions expose firms to reputational risk. We hand-collect a sample of 218 scandals of members of the U.S. Congress that occurred between 2000 and 2019 and estimate the abnormal returns around the day a scandal first appeared in the news. We find that connected firms and to a lesser extent other politically active firms experience value losses around corruption scandals involving firms or lobbyists. These losses increase in managers’ propensity to engage in unethical behavior. Moreover, we find that following such corruption scandals media sources release negative news about connected firms, shareholders of connected firms are more likely to submit proposals on the disclosure of political contributions, and connected firms reduce political spending. Overall, our results suggest that losses around scandals are driven by reputation spillover and investors updating their beliefs about the risks of political contributions.

Keywords: Corruption, political contributions, political scandals, reputation spillover, shareholder activism

JEL Classification: G14, G30, L14

Suggested Citation:

Preuss, Susanne and Wielhouwer, Jacco L., The Reputational Costs of Connections to Controversial Politicians: Evidence From Political Scandals (January 17, 2024). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4698214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The Value of Connections in Turbulent Times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
P Akey
Valuing Changes in Political Networks: Evidence from Campaign Contributions to Close Congressional Elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
S Ansolabehere , J M De Figueiredo , J M Snyder
Why is there so Little Money in U.S. politics?
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 130 Posted: 2003
V P Baloria , J Heese
The Effects of Media Slant on Firm Behavior
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 184 - 202 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
723
RANK
708,207
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies