Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Economic Cycles on the Use of Performance Measures in Executive Compensation: An Empirical Examination

49 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Avinash Arya

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Neerav Nagar

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Abstract

An extensive body of literature documents the central role played by management accountants in the development of performance measures. However, little research exists on the temporal evolution of performance measures in response to changes in the macroeconomic environment. This study examines the impact of economic cycles on the use of sales and income, two widely used performance measures, in executive compensation. We find that during normal periods income receives greater weight than sales in the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) compensation. When recession strikes firms reduce the weight on income but not on sales, resulting in an increase in relative weight on sales. Further investigations reveal that the cross-sectional variations in the weight on sales and income are conditioned by the life cycle stage of the firm. Growth and mature firms assign more weight to income during normal times and also reduce the weight on income most during recessionary period. In contrast, introductory firms increase weight on sales while decline firms leave weights on sales and income unchanged during recession. We also analyze the compensation of the Chief Sales Officer (CSO). Our results indicate that during normal periods both sales and income receive equal weight. However, during a recession the weight on sales rises significantly while the weight on income falls significantly. These findings indicate that the firms dynamically adjust the weights on sales and income in response to phases of economic cycles. To our knowledge, this is the first study to look at the impact of recession on the use of sales and income performance measures in executive compensation.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Economic Cycles, Firm Life Cycle, Sales, Income.

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Avinash and Nagar, Neerav, Impact of Economic Cycles on the Use of Performance Measures in Executive Compensation: An Empirical Examination. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4699983 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4699983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
A Arya , N Nagar
Stewardship value of income statement classifications: An empirical examination
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 80 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
RANK
856,579
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies