Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Tax Rates and Ownership Effects on Cash Flows: Evidence from Latin America

36 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Sakthi Mahenthiran

Oregon State University

Mauricio A. Melgarejo

Butler University - Lacy School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The study examines whether effective tax rates (ETRs) are used to maximize the firms’ cash flow consequences of earnings in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru. The sample consists of 92 firms from 2009 to 2019, and the study finds that ETRs are positively associated with earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). The interaction between ETRs and book-tax differences also affects EBITDA. In Chile, taxable income is a good performance benchmark for financial reporting income because of the strong enforcement of tax laws by regulators. In Brazil and the entire sample, foreign institutional ownership helps bring about greater convergence between taxable income and financial reporting income. The study suggests that, despite the highly concentrated insider ownership levels, by stringently enforcing the tax laws and promoting foreign institutional ownership in listed companies in Latin American code-law countries, the greater convergence in taxable income and financial reporting income could help protect minority shareholders.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Latin America, Taxes, Institutional Ownership, Book-Tax Income Differences, Cash flows

Suggested Citation:

Mahenthiran, Sakthi and Melgarejo, Mauricio A., Effective Tax Rates and Ownership Effects on Cash Flows: Evidence from Latin America. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4699911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4699911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
R Ball , S P Kothari , & A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
RANK
713,531
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies