Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How ESG Performance Impacts a Company’s Profitability and Financial Performance

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series no. 162

95 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Lindsay Endres

Independent

Yajie Xu

Southwest University

Date Written: January 19, 2024

Abstract

Integrating Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles into corporate strategies has become a focal point in the modern business landscape. The pressure from news releases, investors and regulators pushes companies to integrate ESG into their portfolios. This study primarily examines the impact of ESG performance as well as single environment, social and governance pillars on profitability and financial performance for Western European listed public companies using Return-on-Asset (RoA) and Tobin’s Q as indicators. Additionally, this study also uncovers the impact of ESG on two specific sectors, namely, Energy and Financials.

To this end, this study analyses an extended period of historical data from reliable data providers with carefully considered methodologies and reveals a positive significant correlation between ESG performance and a company’s profitability as well as financial performance. The environmental pillar is significantly negatively correlated with both profitability and performance. The government pillar shows no significant correlation with company profitability. The energy sector tends to be more sensitive to environmentally related issues, while most of the findings regarding the Financials sector appear to be inconclusive.

Ultimately, this study provides an overview of ESG principles based on extensive qualitative research and evidence-based quantitative methodology which advance a better understanding of the relationship between ESG performance, a company’s profitability, and financial performance. By bridging the gap in the ESG research field, this study aims to shed light on the potential risks and opportunities associated with ESG integration and provide the reader with several implications for investment decision-making.

Keywords: ESG Performance, ESG Ratings, ESG, Environment, Social, Governance, Tobin’s Q, Financial Institutions, Energy Sector, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, G32, K23, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Endres, Lindsay and Xu, Yajie, How ESG Performance Impacts a Company’s Profitability and Financial Performance (January 19, 2024). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series no. 162, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4700173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4700173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
Y Abdi , X Li , X Càmara-Turull
Exploring the impact of sustainability (ESG) disclosure on firm value and financial performance (FP) in the airline industry: the moderating role of size and age
Environment, Development and Sustainability , volume 24 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
G J Alexander , R A Buchholz
Research Notes. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND STOCK MARKET PERFORMANCE
Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
Allied Market Research , A M
Global Impact Investing Market Is Expected to Generate $6.0 Trillion by 2031: Allied Market Research
GlobeNewswire News Room Posted: 2023-03-24
B Alves , A Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Statista , volume 74 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,624
RANK
29,043
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies