Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation at the Helm: Decoding Founder-Manager Influence in Chinese Family Firms

40 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Lan Sun

Jinan University

Shaobo Liu

Jinan University

Ruolan Ouyang

Jinan University

Yang Zhao

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Abstract

This study explores the intricate relationship between family firms, innovation, and founder-managers using a dataset of Chinese family firms listed on the A-share market between 2007 and 2017. Despite the conventional belief that family firms tend to exhibit conservative and less innovative behavior, our findings reveal a significant, positive association between founder-managers and firm innovation. Notably, the departure of founder-managers significantly impedes innovation, underscoring their indispensable role in driving innovative endeavors. This influence predominantly stems from the founders themselves rather than other family members. Our analysis highlights that the motivating factors for innovation within these firms are primarily rooted in the emotional characteristics of founders, surpassing the impact of extrinsic capital attributes. We also identify a moderating effect of corporate governance on the positive relationship between founder-managers and innovation. These findings carry substantial implications, especially within the context of China's non-state-owned sector, which is experiencing a transition from founders to descendants. They emphasize the critical role that founders play in propelling innovation within family firms and offer valuable insights into the intricate governance dynamics of family-owned enterprises.

Keywords: founder-managers, Innovation, Entrepreneurship, capital and emotional traits, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Lan and Liu, Shaobo and Ouyang, Ruolan and Zhao, Yang, Innovation at the Helm: Decoding Founder-Manager Influence in Chinese Family Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4700762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4700762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
M A Abebe , C Tangpong
Founder-CEOs and corporate turnaround among declining firms
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 2018
R Agarwal , S K Shah
Knowledge sources of entrepreneurship: Firm formation by academic, user and employee innovators
Research policy , volume 43 , issue 7 , p. 1109 - 1133 Posted: 2014
G Ahuja , R W Coff , P M Lee
Managerial foresight and attempted rent appropriation: Insider trading on knowledge of imminent breakthroughs
Strategic Management Journal , volume 26 , issue 9 , p. 791 - 808 Posted: 2005
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies