Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Withhold Loan Covenant Details?

Li, E. X., Neamtiu, M., & Tu, Z. (2024). Do Firms Withhold Loan Covenant Details?. The Accounting Review, 1-29.

63 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024 Last revised: 5 Mar 2024

Edward Xuejun Li

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Monica Neamtiu

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Zhiyuan Tu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 19, 2024

Abstract

We study firms’ decision to withhold loan covenant details by focusing on a unique disclosure-related cost. Prior research documents the prevalence of tight initial covenants that are selectively relaxed in future renegotiations. This uncertainty in renegotiation outcomes can generate a disclosure-related cost because disclosing a snapshot of initial covenants with a high likelihood of violation could lead to harmful outsider reactions (e.g., trade credit cuts) to violations that may be eventually cured. We hypothesize and find that when firms are likely to face tighter initial covenants and more renegotiations, they are more likely to withhold covenant details, particularly when under pressure from trade creditors. Our inference is robust to controlling for firms’ obligation to disclose (i.e., contract materiality) and future performance. Prior research has found that the precise covenant details of many loans are not publicly available. We are the first to offer a systematic explanation related to disclosure costs.

Keywords: Disclosure-related costs; loan covenants; loan renegotiations; trade creditors

JEL Classification: M41; D82; G21; L14

Suggested Citation:

Li, Edward Xuejun and Neamtiu, Monica and Tu, Zhiyuan, Do Firms Withhold Loan Covenant Details? (January 19, 2024). Li, E. X., Neamtiu, M., & Tu, Z. (2024). Do Firms Withhold Loan Covenant Details?. The Accounting Review, 1-29., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4701148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4701148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
B Akins , D De Angelis , M Gaulin
Debt contracting on management
The Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 2095 - 2137 Posted: 2020
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
B C Ayers , C M Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: The magnitude and determinants of undisclosed permanently reinvested earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
229,982
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies