Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reform or Friction? ESG disclosure regulation around the world and M&A outcomes

42 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2024

Hisham Farag

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Santosh Koirala

University of Birmingham, Birmingham Business School

Sandeep Rao

Dublin City University Business School

Rizwan Ahmed

University of Kent

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, we explore the possibility of this unintended effect of ESG disclosure regulations around the world on global M&A outcomes. Our empirical estimation reveals that ESG disclosure regulation deters M&A both in frequency and volume, in support of the view that reform itself could create friction when there is a reason for the market to doubt the rent-seeking- intentions of regulatory agents. The results are robust to the employment of cross-border sub-sample and survive a battery of robustness tests. We further document an increase in transaction cost in the form of higher deal premiums, prolonged deal completion time and decreases in the likelihood of deal completion following the introduction of ESG disclosure regulation. The country-industry level aggregation suggests this deterrence is driven by industries facing higher ESG-related controversies. Our examination of moderating role of state opportunism reveals the deterrence effect of ESG disclosure laws on M&A outcomes lowers in both frequency and magnitude by the quality of national institutions. Our study reinvigorates the importance of national governance as enabling environment to bring positive outcomes of these ESG disclosure reforms.

Keywords: ESG disclosure regulations, M&A, National Governance

Suggested Citation:

Farag, Hisham and Koirala, Santosh and Rao, Sandeep and Ahmed, Rizwan, Reform or Friction? ESG disclosure regulation around the world and M&A outcomes (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication
Accounting, organizations and society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
D C Burgstahler , L Hail , C Leuz
The importance of reporting incentives: Earnings management in European private and public firms
The accounting review , volume 81 , issue 5 , p. 983 - 1016 Posted: 2006
J C Coffee
Privatization and corporate governance: The lessons from securities market failure
J. Corp. L , volume 25 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
RANK
364,455
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies