Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pay Ratio Disclosure and Employee Turnover

53 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024 Last revised: 8 Oct 2025

Chuchu Liang

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Hao Qu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Fiona Yingfei Wang

National University of Singapore

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

The widening CEO-employee pay gap in U.S. corporations and its mandated disclosure have generated significant debate. This paper investigates how disclosure of the CEO-to-median employee pay ratio (i.e., CEO pay ratio) affects employee turnover, a pivotal determinant of organizational health and financial performance. Employing proprietary data on employee turnover, we find that firms disclosing high pay ratios experience higher turnover rates, especially among junior and lower-paid employees. Further analysis shows that firms experiencing high employee turnover are more likely to change their subsequent pay ratio methodology in ways that lower the reported ratio, suggesting both the importance of the disclosed pay ratio and firms’ strategic responses to mitigate potential negative employee reactions. Additionally, elevated turnover at high pay ratio firms is associated with lower firm financial performance, highlighting the broader economic consequences of the disclosure. Our study underscores the impact of CEO pay ratio disclosure on human capital retention and offers insights into the implications of pay transparency for policymakers, investors, and practitioners, particularly from the perspective of employees as key stakeholders.

Keywords: Pay ratio, Employee retention, Employee turnover, Human capital, Mandatory disclosure, Social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Chuchu and Lourie, Ben and Qu, Hao and Wang, Yingfei, Pay Ratio Disclosure and Employee Turnover (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and unemployment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Z Alam , C Ghosh , H E Ryan , L Wang
Discretion in pay ratio estimation
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 173 Posted: 2025
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
S Aryee , P S Budhwar , Z X Chen
Trust as a mediator of the relationship between organizational justice and work outcomes: Test of a social exchange model
Journal of Organizational Behavior , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 267 - 285 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
780
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,748
RANK
73,797
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies