Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Fixed Salary 'Fixed'? Fixed Salaries in Managerial Compensation Depend on the Firm Performance in Japan

31 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024 Last revised: 16 Oct 2024

Jumpei Hamamura

Kwansei Gakuin University

Sho Hayakawa

University of Marketing and Distribution Sciences

Kento Inoue

Kindai University

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the managerial compensation contract in Japan. In particular, we shed light on the fixed salary in managerial compensation and demonstrate that the fixed salary and firm performance have a significant relationship in Japan. Generally, regardless of the firm performance under given fixed salary contracts, managers obtain the determined salary based on initial contracts. However, we find that when the firm achieves high current earnings and stock return, the manager obtains high fixed salaries in Japan. In other words, Japanese firms set fixed salaries as incentive compensation to reward managers. In Japan, we cannot specify the details of the compensation contract on several firms, and therefore, fixed salaries, which Japanese firms disclose, are used to coordinate managerial compensation in each period. When firms set fixed salaries based on performance, they may not be able to ensure firm governance because they cannot explain precisely the determination of the managerial compensation contract to stakeholders. This fact suggests useful insight into the disclosure regulation to the regulator.

Keywords: managerial compensation contract, fixed salary, performance evaluation, management earnings forecast

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hamamura, Jumpei and Hayakawa, Sho and Inoue, Kento, Is Fixed Salary 'Fixed'? Fixed Salaries in Managerial Compensation Depend on the Firm Performance in Japan (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
N Abe , N Gaston , K Kubo
Executive pay in Japan: The role of bank-appointed monitors and the main bank relationship
Japan and the World Economy , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 394 Posted: 2005
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
A Albuquerque , B Chen , Q F Dong , E J Riedl
Ex post settling up in cash compensation: New evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 2283 - 2318 Posted: 2019
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,141
RANK
282,907
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies