Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Care Who Led the Audit in the U.S.? Evidence from Announcements of Accounting Restatements

50 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Vincent Castellani

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Paul Richardson

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

In 2015, the PCAOB mandated the disclosure of audit partner names on Form AP. Although Form AP aimed to help investors assess the quality of audit partners and their audits, prior studies indicate that investors did not immediately respond to the filing of the disclosure nor did it have an immediate impact on audit quality. In this study, we examine whether investors value audit partner disclosures using a high-power setting, whereby audit partners experience a shock to their track records due to clients’ accounting restatements. We find that an audit partner’s non-restating clients exhibit a significantly negative market reaction to the announcement of a client restatement for which the partner signed off on misstated financial statements. This effect is concentrated in more severe restatements and occurs even for Big 4 auditors. Our findings provide novel evidence that audit partner disclosures in the U.S. provide useful information to equity markets.

Keywords: Audit partners, disclosure, equity market returns, PCAOB

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Castellani, Vincent and Richardson, Paul, Do Investors Care Who Led the Audit in the U.S.? Evidence from Announcements of Accounting Restatements (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
L J Abbott , R Barber , W L Buslepp , P Sapkota
Is Audit Partner Identification Useful? Evidence from the KPMG , volume 42 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2023
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp
An investigation of the market's pricing of auditor competence: Evidence from PwC's Oscars blunder
Accounting, Organization and Society , volume 98 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
The materiality of accounting errors: Evidence from SEC comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 839 - 868 Posted: 2019
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Shared analyst coverage: Unifying momentum spillover effects
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 136 , issue 3 , p. 649 - 675 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
154,352
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies