Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Differences in CFO Audit Experience Matter to Financial Statement Quality? A Canadian Perspective

39 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

B. Louise Hayes

University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

The Canadian qualification process for professional accountants affords an opportunity to study the effects of audit experience/education on several performance metrics. We analyze and classify the audit experience and education of chief financial officers (CFOs) of Canadian companies for the period 2006 – 2021. We then test the associations between audit experience and CFO education and several performance metrics, including financial performance, operational performance, quality of ESG disclosures, earnings quality, strength of internal control, and financial statement reliability (i.e., the likelihood of restating annual financial statements). We find that revenue is higher when a company’s CFO has an MBA degree than when a company’s CFO does not have an MBA degree. However, both internal control effectiveness and financial statement reliability are higher when a company’s CFO has audit experience than when a company’s CFO does not have audit experience, especially when the CFO has an MBA.

Keywords: chief financial officer, CFO, MBA, CPA, corporate reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, B. Louise and Boritz, Efrim, Do Differences in CFO Audit Experience Matter to Financial Statement Quality? A Canadian Perspective (January 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Agrawal , J Goldie , B Huyett
Today's CFO: Which profile best suits your company?
McKinsey & Company. Accessed online February Posted: 2013
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The Financial Expertise of CFOs and Accounting Restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
D Weili Bernard , Dawn Ge , Sara Matsumoto , Toynbee
Implied Tradeoffs of Chief Financial Officer Accounting Expertise: Evidence from Firm-Manager Matching
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 9 , p. 5776 - 5799 Posted: 2020
H Brown-Liburd , M A Vasarhelyi
Editorial: Big Data and Audit Evidence
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 12 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
502,079
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies