Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aligning Pay with the Planet: A Study of Executive Compensation, Sustainability Incentives, and Greenhouse Gas Outcomes

49 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2024

Emmanuel Awuah Morrison

Teesside University

douglas adu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Y Guo

Teesside University

Danson Kimani

University of York

Abstract

This study focuses on the role of corporate governance structures (CGS) in improving greenhouse gas performance (GHGP). We utilise an international dataset comprising of 41,370 firm-year observations from over 50 countries over a 20-year period (2002-2022). The findings unveil that executive compensation (EC) is associated with increased process-based greenhouse reduction procedures (GHGRP) but has no similar effect on total GHG emissions reduction. Our results provide novel evidence on the improvement in GHGP when sustainability-based incentive such as the sustainable compensation adoption indicator (SCAI) is integrated with GHGRP. In additional analyses, we find GHGRP on its own does not improve GHGP. Our results endorse the perspective of symbolic legitimation, suggesting that firms tend to employ GHGRP to cultivate favourable perceptions among stakeholders and safeguard their legitimacy. A theoretical contribution is made toward understanding how firms might operate more efficiently through corporate sustainability strategies. The paper delineates the potential for firms to play a more active role in the transition towards a low-carbon economy and help combat climate change.

Keywords: Executive compensation, Corporate governance strategy, CSR, Greenhouse gas

Suggested Citation:

Morrison, Emmanuel Awuah and adu, douglas and Guo, Y and Kimani, Danson, Aligning Pay with the Planet: A Study of Executive Compensation, Sustainability Incentives, and Greenhouse Gas Outcomes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4703496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4703496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
K Abbass , M Z Qasim , H Song , M Murshed , H Mahmood , I Younis
A review of the global climate change impacts, adaptation, and sustainable mitigation measures
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 29 , issue 28 , p. 42539 - 42559 Posted: 2022
D A Adu , A Flynn , C Grey
Carbon performance, financial performance and market value: The moderating effect of pay incentives
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 2111 - 2135 Posted: 2022
D A Adu , A Flynn , C Grey
Executive compensation and sustainable business practices: The moderating role of sustainability-based compensation
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 698 - 736 Posted: 2022
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C Williams , J Granapathi
Putting the s back in corporate social responsibility: a multilevel theory of social change in organizations , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
727
RANK
521,283
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies