Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Good Is Your Business Structure? A Survey of Australian SME Advisors

Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 18(1), 84-136, 2023

57 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024

Barbara Trad

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

John Minas

Monash University

Craig Cameron

Griffith University

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

There are a variety of business structures that might be recommended to a client, all with different advantages and disadvantages. This article reports the evaluation by Australian advisors about their own recommended business structure for small and medium enterprises (SME). In other related research it was demonstrated across a variety of SME scenarios that there were four main business structures recommended, being a trading company with shares held by a discretionary trust, a trading discretionary trust with a corporate trustee, a tax consolidated group with shares held by a discretionary trust, or a company. After recommending a business structure for their hypothetical clients, advisors were then surveyed to evaluate their recommended structure against a matrix of factors considered important for SMEs. The analysis of this evaluation provides unique insights into the strengths and weaknesses of the structures recommended and advances our understanding as to when such structures might be appropriate.

Keywords: business structure, small and medium enterprises, trading company, trading trust; discretionary trust, tax consolidated group

JEL Classification: K34, I23, M40, I24

Suggested Citation:

Trad, Barbara and Freudenberg, Brett and Minas, John and Cameron, Craig, How Good Is Your Business Structure? A Survey of Australian SME Advisors (December 21, 2023). Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 18(1), 84-136, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4704312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
572,087
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies