Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Earnings Quality: A Curvilinear Relationship

Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, a journal of the French Accounting Association

41 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2024

Ghassen Allani

Université Polytechnique Hauts-de-France

Yves Mard

Clermont University, CRCGM

Date Written: January 24, 2024

Abstract

This research examines the impact of dividend policy on earnings quality in the French context over the period 1994-2018. Using four measures of earnings quality, we find an inverted U-shaped relationship between dividend level and earnings quality. Dividend level positively influences earnings quality up to a certain payout level. Beyond this threshold, the dividend increase is detrimental to earnings quality. We also observe that the decrease in earnings persistence observed for high values of dividend ratios is explained by earnings management. Moreover, we find that the curvilinear relationship between dividend level and earnings quality is moderated for large firms and firms with volatile dividends. Our results in the French context extend the existing literature and reconcile the mixed results in previous research.

Keywords: Dividend policy, Earnings quality, curvilinear relationship.

JEL Classification: G35, M4

Suggested Citation:

Allani, Ghassen and Mard, Yves, Dividend Policy and Earnings Quality: A Curvilinear Relationship (January 24, 2024). Forthcoming in Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, a journal of the French Accounting Association , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4705332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly dividend and earnings announcements and Stockholders' returns : An Empirical analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
Z An , W Gao , D Li , D Ye
Dividend payouts, cash-flow uncertainty and the role of institutions
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 49 , issue 7-8 , p. 1356 - 1390 Posted: 2022
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
M Banyi , K M Kahle
Declining propensity to pay ? A re-examination of the lifecycle theory
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
RANK
325,744
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies