Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incidence, Disclosure, and Risk of Corporate Litigation: Insights from Federal Court Filings

The Wharton School Research Paper

64 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Mary Brooke Billings

New York University

Robert W. Holthausen

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Christine Petrovits

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Date Written: January 21, 2024

Abstract

We collect a sample of 178,334 lawsuits filed against 222,913 lawsuit-defendants (representing 5,533 unique public companies) in federal district court from 2006 through 2021. These lawsuits involve an array of allegations, including product liability, civil rights discrimination, cybersecurity breaches, improper compensation and labor practices, antitrust violations, corruption, securities violations, pollution, and intellectual property infringement. Less than 0.6% of these cases stem from securities class action claims. The remaining cases exhibit rich variation in legal exposure across firms, industries, and time that reflects firm activities as well as social, political, and regulatory trends. Our findings indicate that materiality, public and private enforcement, the richness of firms’ information environments (including the desire to control the narrative surrounding the lawsuit), and firm characteristics factor into managers’ decisions to disclose these claims. Subsequent tests link aggregate legal exposure to return volatility, suggesting value in taking a holistic view when considering how litigation shapes firms’ risk. Collectively, our findings establish the foundation to further study the adequacy and strategic nature of the disclosure of contingent liabilities, and to explore alleged corporate misbehavior in myriad present-day contexts. In so doing, they highlight the importance of taking a context-specific view when assessing legal exposure.

Keywords: disclosure, contingent liabilities, corporate litigation, securities litigation, litigation risk

JEL Classification: M41, K22, G14

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Mary Brooke and Holthausen, Robert W. and Petrovits, Christine and Wang, Danye, Incidence, Disclosure, and Risk of Corporate Litigation: Insights from Federal Court Filings (January 21, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4705072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4705072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J Aharony , C Liu , A Yawson
Corporate litigation and executive turnover
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 268 - 292 Posted: 2015
G Alexiou
Website accessibility lawsuits rising exponentially in 2023 according to latest data Posted: 2023
A Allen , K Standridge , J Thornock
The (in)adequacy of legal contingency accruals Posted: 2023
The state of antitrust enforcement and competition policy in the Posted: 2020
Load more
3 Citations
Kainat Iftikhar , Tanveer Bagh , Muhammad Nadir Shabbir
The dichotomy of corporate litigation risk in shaping ESG disclosure: Does green innovation matter?
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 75 , p. 102744 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Mark Zakota
EPA scrutiny and voluntary environmental disclosures
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jiayin Hu , Wenwei Peng , Yang Su
Political Influences and Court Information Production: Evidence from the Municipal Debt Market
78 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2024 · Last revised: 19 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 366
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
RANK
192,754
3 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies