Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does U.S. immigration policy facilitate financial misconduct?

54 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2025

Ruiting(Dan) Dai

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Xuanjun Dong

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Qin Tan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of U.S. immigration policy, specifically the H-1B visa program, on the likelihood of financial misconduct in companies. We argue that employers have leverage over employees on an H-1B visa because such visa holders must maintain H-1B-eligible employment in order to legally reside in the U.S. We posit that companies relying on H-1B visas to hire workers in accounting roles have an increased ability to misreport their financial statements due to the greater costs H-1B employees face if they are unexpectedly fired for not following the demands of their bosses or for blowing the whistle on misconduct. Using the sharp reduction in the H-1B visa cap in 2004 as a shock to such employment, we find that companies that relied on this visa program for accounting roles pre-shock experience a 2.3 percentage point decline in accounting irregularities post-shock. Cross-sectional tests show that the reduction in irregularities is greater in companies where employees on an H-1B visa have (1) greater influence on financial reporting or (2) fewer outside job opportunities. In addition, the relation between H-1B visa use and irregularities is stronger in companies with greater ownership by short-horizon investors that are more likely to pressure managers to meet near-term earnings targets. We corroborate our findings using the outcome of H-1B visa lotteries as shocks to such employment.

Keywords: accounting restatement, financial reporting quality, immigration policy, H1-B, foreign labor, financial misconduct

JEL Classification: G28,G30,G38,M41,M48,K35

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Ruiting and Dong, Xuanjun and Shroff, Nemit and Tan, Qin, Does U.S. immigration policy facilitate financial misconduct? (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Dan Amiram , Zahn Bozanic , James D Cox , Quentin Dupont , Jonathan M Karpoff , Richard Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Daniel Aobdia
Employee mobility, noncompete agreements, product-market competition, and company disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 296 - 346 Posted: 2018
Daniel Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Daniel Aobdia , Robert Carnes , Kevin Munch
The Role of High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Labor in Shaping US Startup Outcomes Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,907
RANK
113,283
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies