Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Expectations Through Budgetary Slack: Evidence from Project Financing

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2024

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Andrew Ferguson

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine whether mandatory management forecast characteristics are influenced by lender expectations around project financing approvals. In our setting, debt enters the firm’s capital structure for the first time and thus firms experience the initiation of bank monitoring. We contend that managers will be motivated to meet the expectations of lenders, who are primarily concerned with cost overruns and project failure, through the creation of budgetary slack. In particular, we examine whether project financing approvals impact mandatory cash flow forecast accuracy and bias. Using a large sample of firms that provide mandatory forecasts of expected future cash outflows around project financing approvals, we find that managers’ forecasts become less accurate and more biased. In particular, consistent with the creation of budgetary slack, cost overestimates increase after project financing approval, yet we observe no difference for underestimates. Examining the timing of the overestimation, we find that managers are more likely to create budgetary slack while debt tranches remain to be drawn, coinciding with high-risk construction during the development phase. We interpret these results as evidence consistent with the use of budgetary slack to manage lender expectations and mitigate concerns of cost overruns. The results of our study build upon extant work which examines the relation between corporate disclosure and external monitors. In so doing, our study sheds light on ‘transactional’ or one-time lending arrangements rather than the more ‘relational’ or repeated-game lending arrangements found in syndicated loans. Overall, the results of our study speak to how managers alter mandatory forecast characteristics when their projects become subject to lender monitoring.

Keywords: Budgetary slack, mandatory management forecasts, project financing, private loans, transactional lending, non-relationship lending, first-time debt financing, first-time lender monitoring

JEL Classification: G21, G31, M13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bozanic, Zahn and Ferguson, Andrew and Pundrich, Gabriel, Managing Expectations Through Budgetary Slack: Evidence from Project Financing (January 25, 2024). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J Arnold , Ill
Assessing capital risk: You can't be too conservative
Harvard Business Review , volume 64 , p. 113 - 121 Posted: 1986
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1-3 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
S Baiman , J H Evans
Pre-decision information and participative management control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
I Benning
Bankers' perspective of mining project finance
The Journal of The South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy , p. 145 - 152 Posted: 2000-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
713,531
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies