Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management under the UK Different Regulatory Environments of the Main and Alternative Investment Markets

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

49 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Mohammad Alhadab

Al al-Bayt University

Malek El Diri

University of York; University of Leeds

Date Written: June 18, 2023

Abstract

Beyond the recent research on related party transactions (RPTs), we study the impact of regulatory environment on RPTs and earnings management. Using a sample of UK public firms listed on the lightly regulated Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and the heavily regulated Main Market (Main) of the London Stock Exchange, we find evidence that firms on the Main Market use more efficient and less opportunistic RPTs than those in the AIM market. In addition, efficient RPTs are used as a substitute for the costly real earnings management in the Main Market. Our findings support the efficient contracting hypothesis under the stricter regulation of the Main Market which reduces information asymmetry and enhances internal resource optimisation. Our results are robust controlling for endogeneity and selection bias problems.

Keywords: Related party transactions, Regulatory environment, Earnings management, Main Market, Alternative Investment Market

JEL Classification: G3, M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Alhadab, Mohammad and El Diri, Malek, Related Party Transactions and Earnings Management under the UK Different Regulatory Environments of the Main and Alternative Investment Markets (June 18, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M A Acedo-Ramírez , A C Díaz-Mendoza , F J Ruiz-Cabestre
IPO underpricing in the second and main markets: The case of the London Stock Exchange
International Finance , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 117 Posted: 2019
M Acedo-Ramírez , F J Ruiz-Cabestre
IPO characteristics and underprincing in the Alternative Investment Market
Applied Economics Letters , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 485 - 489 Posted: 2017
M Alhadab
Earnings management and the reputation of nomads around IPOs: The experience of the UK Alternative Investment Market
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 57 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
M Alhadab , M Abdullatif , I Mansour
Related party transactions and earnings management in Jordan: the role of ownership structure
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 505 - 531 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
621
RANK
576,053
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies