Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Shareholding In Privately-Owned Firms and Greenwashing

24 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024

Qi Wang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Zhong Ma

Beijing Jiaotong University

Jinying Zhao

Jilin University (JLU)

Guang Shu

Beijing Jiaotong University

Abstract

It remains unclear whether state shareholding (SS) truly enhances firms' fulfillment of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) or merely motivates them to strategically release "enhanced" CSR reports. Utilizing the reform that permits state–owned equity to participate in privately–owned enterprises (POEs) in China, we find that the participation of SS enhances POEs' access to resources and alleviates their needs for legitimacy, leading to disparities in CSR disclosure and substantive CSR activities for POEs, consistent with the notion of greenwashing. The greenwashing behavior is particularly pronounced in the presence of large state-owned shareholder and when CSR disclosure is compulsory.

Keywords: State shareholding, Corporate social responsibility, Greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Qi and Ma, Zhong and Zhao, Jinying and Shu, Guang, State Shareholding In Privately-Owned Firms and Greenwashing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies