Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockholders and strategic voting in DeFi DAOs' governance

96 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Romain Rossello

HEC Paris

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

Decentralized Finance (DeFi) is at its core composed of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). Because they rely on frequent votes to make strategic decisions, and because granular data on these votes are available, I show how DeFi DAOs offer an interesting laboratory to study corporate governance. I find that large voters strategically influence votes. Relying on event studies, I put forward that the way in which they exercise their voting power signals whether their interests are aligned with those of minority token-holders. This information is then incorporated in the market valuation of the DeFi DAOs' governance tokens. The first time a majority voter sways the decision against the votes of minority token-holders causes on average a -12.05% weekly abnormal return. Aligned with corporate governance theory, the presence of blockholders in votes is positive. Their votes are associated with an average 1.7% weekly abnormal return. However, the first time a blockholder strategically votes in the last minutes of a proposal triggers on average a -8.55% weekly abnormal return. Leveraging an LLM algorithm on governance texts, I distinguish DeFi DAOs which advertised decentralization and righteous management. In line with a corporate governance framework, negative effects on token returns following first strategic voting occurrences are exacerbated those DeFi DAOs.

Keywords: Decentralized Finance, DAOs, Strategic voting, Corporate Governance, Blockholder theory, Shareholder's voting, Tokenomics, Cryptocurrencies, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: D79, G34, L17, M13

Suggested Citation:

Rossello, Romain, Blockholders and strategic voting in DeFi DAOs' governance (January 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
I Appel , J Grennan
Decentralized governance and digital asset prices Posted: 2023
L Bach , D Metzger
How Close Are Close Shareholder Votes?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 3183 - 3214 Posted: 2018
Y Bakos , H Halaburda
Will blockchains disintermediate platforms? the problem of credible decentralization in daos
The Problem of Credible Decentralization in Daos Posted: 2022-08-07
T Barbereau , R Smethurst , O Papageorgiou , A Rieger , G Fridgen
Defi, not so decentralized: The measured distribution of voting rights Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Ioannis Karakostas , Konstantinos Pantelidis
DAO Dynamics: Treasury and Market Cap Interaction
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 179 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Thomas Lloyd , Daire O'Broin , Martin Harrigan
The On-Chain and Off-Chain Mechanisms of DAO-to-DAO Voting
, p. 649 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,475
RANK
193,307
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies