Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unique Roles of Venture Boards

44 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024

Jun Ho Lee

University of Kansas

Long Su

University of Kansas

Jukyeong Han

McMaster University

Minyoung Kim

University of Kansas - School of Business

Vincent Barker

University of Kansas

Abstract

This study reviews the venture board literature and identifies the unique roles of venture boards with explicit consideration of the contexts in which ventures are situated. Despite their increasing importance, few studies provide a holistic review on venture boards with a theoretical framework. To fill the gap in the literature, we draw on role theory and introduce a theoretical framework integrating the general roles of boards and venture-specific contexts. Our theoretical framework classifies the roles of venture boards into four categories – Internal/External Monitoring Roles and Internal/External Resource Provision Roles – and, thereby, enables us to identify distinctive roles of venture boards from those of public firms’ boards. We also suggest future research agendas, including the implications of changes in ownership structure and board controls across stages of ventures’ growth. Our role-based framework and literature review contribute to entrepreneurship research by illuminating the multiple, distinctive roles of venture boards and their implications on ventures’ outcomes.

Keywords: Venture Boards, Venture Governance, New Ventures, Role Theory

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jun Ho and Su, Long and Han, Jukyeong and Kim, Minyoung and Barker, Vincent, Unique Roles of Venture Boards. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
RANK
631,426
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies