Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taking the Pulse of Firm Innovation from Online Job Postings

57 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Ying Du

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Wenfeng Wang

Southern University of Science and Technology

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Yue Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 9, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we analyze data on online job postings by US public firms to investigate their R&D activities. Our findings reveal a consistent increase in the demand for R&D human capital from 2010 to 2021. Controlling for other commonly utilized indicators of firms’ R&D activities, such as R&D expenses and narrative R&D information in 10-K filings, we find that R&D job postings possess additional predictive power in determining firms’ future innovation performance. This predictive power is particularly pronounced for firms with higher growth opportunities or lower labor intensity and for R&D job postings that require disruptive technology skills or advanced education. Furthermore, the skills listed in R&D job postings align with the types of patents firms generate in the future. Overall, our results highlight the significance of R&D job postings as a valuable source of information regarding firms’ innovation activities.

Keywords: corporate innovation, R&D human capital, online job posting

JEL Classification: J23; J24; O31; O32; O33

Suggested Citation:

Du, Ying and Wang, Wenfeng and Zhang, Bohui and Zheng, Yue, Taking the Pulse of Firm Innovation from Online Job Postings (January 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4707171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4707171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , H Alp , N Bloom , W Kerr
Innovation, reallocation, and growth
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 11 , p. 3450 - 3491 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
Z J Acs , D B Audretsch
Innovation in large and small firms: An empirical analysis
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 678 - 690 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,582
RANK
159,842
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies