Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change Exposure, ESG Disclosure and Idiosyncratic Volatility

41 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2024

Kasun Perera

University of Otago

Duminda Kuruppuarachchi

University of Otago

Sriyalatha Kumarasinghe

University of Otago

Mouhammed Tahir Suleman

Department of Accounting and Finance, University of Otago

Abstract

We reveal a statistically and economically significant negative impact of a firm’s exposure to climate change on its idiosyncratic volatility (IDVOL) from 2003 to 2020 in the US. Our robust results suggest that asset prices do not adequately reflect corporate climate change exposures, indicating inefficient pricing of climate risk in the market. We further find that firm-level ESG disclosures significantly weaken the negative effect of climate change exposure on firms’ IDVOL, highlighting the value-relevance of ESG information. Empirical evidence also documents that firms in polluting and non-high-tech sectors and those operating in highly regulated states are exposed predominantly to the negative impact of climate change exposure on firm-level risk. We find that the information asymmetry and investor confidence serve as channels to explain the negative effect of climate change exposure on firm-level risk. Overall, our findings suggest that climate change risk implications of the IDVOL of companies are worth taking into account in policy-level decision-making by relevant stakeholder groups.

Keywords: Idiosyncratic volatility, climate risk, Climate change exposure, ESG disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Perera, Kasun and Kuruppuarachchi, Duminda and Kumarasinghe, Sriyalatha and Suleman, Mouhammed Tahir, Climate Change Exposure, ESG Disclosure and Idiosyncratic Volatility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4707997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4707997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further US evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
G Atanasova , E S Schwartz
Stranded fossil fuel reserves and firm value Posted: 2020
K Bae , S E Ghoul , Z Gong , O Guedhani
Does CSR matter in times of crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Corporate Finance , p. 67 - 101876 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
783
RANK
436,820
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies