Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Optimal Amount of Voluntary Disclosure: Market Monitoring Versus Managerial Bias

37 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2024

Josef Schroth

Government of Canada - Bank of Canada

Abstract

Voluntary disclosure can lower the cost of capital and improve market monitoring of managers. However, market participants may be uncertain about how much managers intend to bias any voluntary disclosure. Firm owners can distort managerial compensation to mitigate uncertainty about managerial bias. This paper builds an optimal-contracting model to show how reductions in cost of capital and higher sensitivities of equity pay to performance need to be traded off against distortions in managerial compensation. The model predicts that, across firms, voluntary disclosure is negatively related to the cost of capital but also positively related to managers' bias and equity pay.

Keywords: Managerial compensation contracts, Voluntary disclosure, Reporting uncertainty, Market monitoring, Cost of capital

Suggested Citation:

Schroth, Josef, On the Optimal Amount of Voluntary Disclosure: Market Monitoring Versus Managerial Bias. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4707097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4707097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
A Almazan , S Banerji , A De Motta
Attracting attention: Cheap managerial talk and costly market monitoring
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1399 - 1436 Posted: 2008
A Amel-Zadeh , A Scherf , E Soltes
Creating firm disclosures
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2019
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies