Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Interbank Information Sharing to Firms' Public Disclosure Policies

61 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024 Last revised: 1 Apr 2025

Xiaoqi Chen

Xiamen University

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Junqi Liu

Xiamen University, Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: January 29, 2024

Abstract

Exploiting the country-level mandatory adoption of public credit registries (PCRs), which share borrowers' credit information among banks to improve their ability to sort and monitor borrowers, we document a negative impact of interbank information sharing on firms' decisions to voluntarily provide management forecasts. Consistent with expectations, we find that this impact is larger for PCRs that share more information, have greater transparency, and are under stricter regulation. The impact also intensifies for firms exhibiting more severe information asymmetry and operating in countries where banks have stronger monitoring incentives and regulatory institutions better protect creditors' claims. Additionally, interbank information sharing reduces the informativeness of firms' disclosure. Collectively, we provide evidence implying that interbank information sharing engenders the substitution of shareholder monitoring with bank monitoring, which helps resolve agency problems and reduces shareholders' demand for public disclosure.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Management forecasts, Interbank information sharing, Public credit registries

JEL Classification: D82, G28, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaoqi and Chen, Yangyang and Liu, Junqi and Pittman, Jeffrey A., The Importance of Interbank Information Sharing to Firms' Public Disclosure Policies (January 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4708924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4708924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
D Anginer , A C Bertay , R Cull , A Demirgüç-Kunt , D S Mare
Bank regulation and supervision ten years after the global financial crisis Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
398,904
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies