Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turnover by Non-CEO Members of Top Management Teams and Escalation of Commitment

14 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2024 Last revised: 13 May 2024

Dmitriy Chulkov

Indiana University Kokomo - School of Business

Date Written: January 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores how the decision-making bias known as escalation of commitment relates to turnover by non-CEO members of top management teams. Escalation of commitment happens when decision makers continue business investments that are unlikely to succeed. Theoretical reasons for the link between turnover and escalation include self-justification and reputation protection. Top managers may conceal prior mistakes, escalate commitment to earlier decisions, and leave the firm before the outcome of the investments is observed. Incoming managers do not have commitment to earlier decisions and are able to stop investments that are discovered to be failing. Empirical analysis based on a sample of over 1,600 publicly-traded U.S. firms confirms that departures by non-CEO members of top management teams are associated with increased likelihood of new reporting of discontinued operations and extraordinary items by firms, and a reduction in the firms' performance relative to their industry. These effects are stronger in the years concurrent with and following a joint departure of multiple members of the top management team. Earlier empirical research focused solely on CEO turnover in the context of escalation of commitment. The contribution of this study is in documenting the key role of non-CEO managers and team turnover in escalation.

Keywords: escalation of commitment, executive turnover, top management teams

JEL Classification: G30, J63, M12, M51

Suggested Citation:

Chulkov, Dmitriy, Turnover by Non-CEO Members of Top Management Teams and Escalation of Commitment (January 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4708128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4708128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Barron , D Chulkov , G Waddell
Top Management Team Turnover, CEO Succession Type, and Strategic Change
Journal of Business Research , volume 64 , issue 8 , p. 904 - 910 Posted: 2011
M Bazerman , T Giuliano , A Appelman
Escalation of commitment in individual and group decision making. Organizational behaviour and human performance , volume 33 , p. 141 - 152 Posted: 1984
J Brockner
The escalation of commitment to a failing course of action: toward theoretical progress , volume 17 , p. 39 - 61 Posted: 1992
R Brody , K Frank
Influence of prior involvement on employees' ratings
Psychological Reports , volume 90 , p. 139 - 149 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Dmitriy Chulkov
Turnover by Non-CEO Members of Top Management Teams and Escalation of Commitment
14 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2024 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
841,369
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies