Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speaking with One Voice? Individual Preferences and Managers’ Personal Communication Style

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Christoph J. Sextroh

Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg; Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Juliane Wutzler

Worms University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether and to what extent the personal communication of corporate information by individual managers is affected by their personal preferences for impression management. Using earnings conference calls as a setting in which to observe individual managers’ personal communication and controlling for firm-specific and manager-specific factors, we document that the communication style of managers who sell corporate stock shortly after the call is significantly more optimistic than that of the nonselling manager who participates in the same call. The effect is more pronounced in the less scripted and more flexible question and answer section and is more likely to emerge from CFO than from CEO communications. Taken together, our findings suggest that differences in individual communication styles are not only affected by personality and career backgrounds of individual managers but rather can also emerge from managers’ conscious or unconscious preferences for impression management.

Keywords: Corporate communication, Manager communication, Impression management, Conference calls, Insider trading, Tone

Suggested Citation:

Sextroh, Christoph J. and Wutzler, Juliane, Speaking with One Voice? Individual Preferences and Managers’ Personal Communication Style (December 1, 2023). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4708677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
K Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , K Boudt , J Thewissen
Managers set the tone: Equity incentives and the tone of earnings press releases
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 72 , p. 132 - 147 Posted: 2016
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Yiang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
S P Baginski , E Demers , A Kausar , Y J Yu
Linguistic tone and the small trader
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 68 , issue 69 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
RANK
667,795
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies