Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Corporate Governance from the Perspective of Japanese Listed Family Firms

41 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Hokuto Dazai

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Takuji Saito

Graduate School of Business Administration, Keio University

Zenichi Shishido

Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Law

Noriyuki Yanagawa

University of Tokyo - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: January 27, 2024

Abstract

The corporate governance of Japanese listed family firms is an outlier in two aspects. First, among listed family firms in the world, it is a unique phenomenon that many founding families keep sending top managers without owning substantial stock. Second, among listed firms in Japan, only family firms take the Anglo-American style top managers’ incentive mechanism, particularly substantial manager ownership, although their shareholder monitoring is weak, like Japanese non-family firms. Heir managing firms, in which top managers are picked from small family pools, perform slightly better than non-family firms in Japan that suffered low accounting performance compared to Anglo-American firms.

Although previous studies analyze both the relationship between family ownership and firm performance in listed family firms and the relationship between management ownership and firm performance in listed firms in general, little is known about the effect of management ownership in family firms, because it has been synonymous with family ownership. By using the unique sample of Japanese listed family firms, which includes both low family ownership firms and high family ownership firms, we distinguish the effect of management ownership and that of family ownership on family firm performance. Our regression analysis shows that while management ownership is effective in boosting performance even with less than 5% family ownership, family ownership is not found to boost performance unless it is more than 20%.

Our study suggests that among the two factors of the Anglo-American corporate governance model: shareholder monitoring and management incentive, management incentive may make a difference in firm performance even without strong shareholder monitoring.

Keywords: Listed family firm, Japanese family firm, corporate governance, corporate ownership

Suggested Citation:

Dazai, Hokuto and Saito, Takuji and Shishido, Zenichi and Yanagawa, Noriyuki, Comparative Corporate Governance from the Perspective of Japanese Listed Family Firms (January 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4708152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4708152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
See Masahiko , Aoki
Towards an Economic Model of the Japanese Firm
J. ECON. LIT , volume 28 Posted: 1990
John Buchanan , Dominic H Chai , Simon Deakin
Agency Theory in Practice: A Qualitative Study of Hedge Fund Activism in Japan, 22 CORP. GOVERNANCE: AN INT'L REV , volume 296 , p. 306 - 308 Posted: 2014
Dan W Puchniak
No Need for Asia to be Woke: Contextualizing Anglo-America's 'Discovery' of Corporate Purpose
RED , volume 4 Posted: 2022
Zenichi See , Wei Shishido , Shen
INCENTIVE BARGAINING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: COMPARATIVE ENTERPRISE LAW ACROSS THREE LEADING ECONOMIES Ch
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
798
RANK
572,087
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies