Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance pay, internal control, and employee misconduct

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 139

61 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2024

Matthias Kräkel

University of Bonn

Anja Schöttner

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

We study a situation where an employee chooses productive effort to achieve a target but can also manipulate a performance measure to pretend target achievement and earn an undeserved bonus. Whereas the firm's shareholders may benefit from undetected manipulation, both the employee and the shareholders realize a loss in case of detected manipulation. We analyze how performance pay, internal control, and external control (e.g., by a public authority) interact to prevent or promote manipulation. We show that internal control may be implemented to enhance effort but also to induce manipulation more often or at lower costs. Whether the introduction of internal control reduces the ex ante probability of manipulation by inducing higher effort, which yields a lower failure probability and, thus, a lower probability that manipulation occurs, crucially depends on the extent of external control that the firm and the employee face. In particular, internal control reduces the probability of manipulation when external control is sufficiently high for the firm or sufficiently low for the employee. 

Keywords: moral hazard, misconduct, internal control, performance pay

Suggested Citation:

Kräkel, Matthias and Schöttner, Anja, Performance pay, internal control, and employee misconduct (January 25, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4709206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4709206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
C Angelucci , M A Han
Self-reporting schemes and employee wrongdoing Posted: 2021
C Argenton , E Van Damme
Optimal deterrence of illegal behavior under imperfect corporate governance Posted: 2014
N Atkinson
Corporate liability, collateral consequences, and capital structure
Columbia Business Law Review , issue 1 , p. 1 - 68 Posted: 2023
C Aubert
Managerial effort incentives and market collusion , p. 9 - 127 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
RANK
293,623
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies