Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EVALUATING WORKING CAPITAL STRATEGIES TO INCREASE PROFITABILITY WITH REFERENCE TO INDIAN BANKING SECTOR

23 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Anju Dagar

Lingaya;s Vidyapeeth

Date Written: January 29, 2024

Abstract

ABSTRACT
The main objective of this article is to explore the impact of Indian banks on profitability in the
strategic management of working capital. We obtained details on a subset of 150 Likert-based
bank branches by means of a graph-based analysis. The outcomes of our research are very much
in line with the different foreign studies in multiple markets. The findings indicate that control of
working capital and profitability in Indian banks are positively associated. In addition, it is
shown that the amount of day and day accounts paid was negatively linked to the profitableness
of the company whereas a favourable link with the company's profitability is indicated by the
number of days of account receivable and the cash transfer cycle. This report will add to the
current literature the influence of working capital management techniques on profitability in a
developing banking sector like India

Suggested Citation:

Dagar, Anju, EVALUATING WORKING CAPITAL STRATEGIES TO INCREASE PROFITABILITY WITH REFERENCE TO INDIAN BANKING SECTOR (January 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4709267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4709267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Yahaya , H &bala
Working capital management and financial performance of deposit money banks in Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 16 , p. 57 - 71 Posted: 2015
M F Akhtar , K Ali , S &sadaqat
Liquidity risk management: a comparative study between conventional and Islamic banks of Pakistan
Interdisciplinary journal of research in business , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 2011
S K Agyei , A Ansong , I M
Determinants of working capital requirement and policies of banks in Ghana
Ghanaian Journal of Economics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 51 Posted: 2013
N E A B Mohamad , N B M
Working capital management: The effect of market valuation and profitability in Malaysia
International journal of Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 11 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
223
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies