Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnovers Due to Poor Industry Performance: An Examination of the Boards’ Retention Criteria

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 2024

47 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024

Lin Li

Audencia Business School

Peter Lam

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Wilson Tong

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Justin Law

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 30, 2024

Abstract

Numerous studies examine CEO turnover but rarely in the context of business cycles. We demonstrate that the role of the set of turnover decision parameters could change according to industry conditions. Specifically, idiosyncratic returns are more conducive to forced CEO turnover probabilities during recessions than during booms, whereas the opposite is true for industry returns. We provide evidence supporting that idiosyncratic returns are more correlated with managerial ability and stock prices are more informative during recessions. Our findings shed light on how CEOs are assessed by company boards when making turnover decisions.

Keywords: CEO turnovers, idiosyncratic returns, industry returns, industry conditions, price informativeness

JEL Classification: G3, G30, M4, M40

Suggested Citation:

Li, Lin and Lam, Peter and Tong, Wilson and Law, Justin, CEO Turnovers Due to Poor Industry Performance: An Examination of the Boards’ Retention Criteria (January 30, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4709788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 Posted: 1999
A Agrawal , R A Walkling
Executive careers and compensation surrounding takeover bids
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , p. 985 - 1014 Posted: 1994
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies