Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnover: The Effect of Ceos’ Outside Options

41 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2024

Tom Stannard

University of Otago

Graeme Guthrie

Independent

Abstract

This paper presents a new model of CEO turnover that includes outside employment and retirement options. The board and the CEO use firm performance to update their beliefs about the CEO's ability. If the CEO's perceived ability falls below an endogenously determined threshold, the board fires the CEO, but if it climbs above a different endogenously determined threshold, the CEO resigns. In situations where CEOs' outside options are more valuable, a good replacement CEO is more likely to pursue outside opportunities, which makes a board less likely to replace its current CEO following poor performance. Our empirical analysis finds that turnover--performance sensitivity is negative for bad performance and typically insignificant for good performance. However, in situations where CEOs have more valuable outside options, turnover--performance sensitivity is positive for good performance, consistent with our theory.

Keywords: CEO Turnover, Corporate Governance, corporate decision-making, Learning

Suggested Citation:

Stannard, Tom and Guthrie, Graeme, CEO Turnover: The Effect of Ceos’ Outside Options. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4710417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
J A Brickley , J S Linck , J L Coles
What happens to CEOs after they retire? New evidence on career concerns, horizon problems, and CEO incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 377 Posted: 1999
R Bushman , Z Dai , X Wang
Risk and CEO turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 3 , p. 381 - 398 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
RANK
906,046
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies