Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Artificial Intelligence in Decision-Making: Evidence from the Effectiveness of Corporate Tax Strategies

61 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024 Last revised: 29 Sep 2025

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Michele Mullaney

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 26, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether information processing constraints limit managers’ ability to effectively integrate tax planning and core business strategies (i.e., effective tax planning). We propose that artificial intelligence (AI) tools, such as machine learning, can mitigate these constraints by providing enhanced predictive information for key business decisions (e.g., customer demand, supply chain), thereby reducing processing costs. Using a novel firm-year measure of investment in AI-related human capital for a broad sample of U.S. non-technology firms between 2010 and 2018, we find that AI investment is positively associated with tax effectiveness. This effect is concentrated in firms where the tax function holds a higher status and in complex firms where processing costs are likely to be the highest. Consistent with AI reducing information processing costs, we find that AI enhances tax effectiveness by enhancing internal information quality and internal capital management. We provide novel evidence that processing constraints hinder effective tax planning and show that AI can mitigate these constraints by reducing processing costs.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, limited attention, decision-making, information processing constraints, tax effectiveness

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Trent and Mullaney, Michele, The Use of Artificial Intelligence in Decision-Making: Evidence from the Effectiveness of Corporate Tax Strategies (September 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4710463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial Intelligence: The Ambiguous Labor Market Impact of Automating Prediction
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial intelligence adoption and system-wide change
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
H Amiraslani , J Donovan , M A Phillips , R Wittenberg-Moerman
Contracting in the Dark: The rise of public-side lenders in the syndicated loan market
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Adrienne DePaul , Trent Krupa , Michele Mullaney
Tax Audits and Accounting Labor Investment
53 Pages · Posted: 17 Sep 2025 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
607
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,317
RANK
101,650
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies