Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity and Merger Outcomes

56 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2024

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Haoyu Li

Brunel University London

Yue (Lucy) Liu

University of Edinburgh Business School

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of target cybersecurity risk on merger outcomes. Using reported data breaches as a proxy for cybersecurity risk, we find strong evidence that the target data breach experience is negatively associated with the acquirer and combined entity announcement returns and long-run post-merger performance. We further show that the acquirer recognizes a greater goodwill impairment loss, takes longer to complete the transaction, and is more likely to experience a future data breach, when it purchases a data-breached firm. The value destruction effect is more pronounced in deals involving acquirers belonging to certain industries that are vulnerable to data breaches and have higher financial distress risk, but less pronounced in deals involving acquirers that hire top-tier due diligence advisors. We also find that acquirers’ strategic considerations and prior data breach experience affect the probability of acquiring a data-breached target.

Keywords: data breaches, Cybersecurity, Mergers and acquisitions, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Yizhe and Li, Haoyu and Liu, Yue (Lucy), Cybersecurity and Merger Outcomes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4710414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
942
RANK
276,216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies