Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Impact Evidence for Climate-Related Disclosures

29 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Mark C. Freeman

University of York

Adriana Cornea-Madeira

University of York

Date Written: January 30, 2024

Abstract

We summarise the existing literature on the costs and benefits that may relate to climate disclosure mandates. We focus on categorising the different sources of costs and benefits — both intended and unintended — that may arise from introducing or tightening such mandates, and reviewing the empirical literature on the likely magnitudes of such impacts. This includes discussing potential secondary impacts on retail investors and their attitudes to environmental-financial trade-offs. We document a range of such impacts and dependencies from stricter climate reporting regulations. Many of these are likely to bring positive net benefits to society, although, for others, the net effects are unclear or even potentially negative. Given the recent and emerging nature of this literature, and the sometimes conflicting evidence that it currently presents, we also highlight the pressing need for further research in the area

Keywords: Climate reporting, financial regulation, cost-benefit analysis, TCFD

JEL Classification: D61, G28, M41, Q51, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Freeman, Mark and Cornea-Madeira, Adriana, A Review of the Impact Evidence for Climate-Related Disclosures (January 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4710569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2018
A Anderson , D T Robinson
Financial literacy in the age of green investment
Review of Finance , volume 26 , p. 1551 - 1584 Posted: 2022
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S
Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns?
Review of Finance, forthcoming Posted: 2023
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S
Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns? Reply
Review of Finance, forthcoming Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,352
RANK
275,154
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies