Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing versus Signalling Corporate Social Responsibility Activities and their Association with Earnings Smoothing

37 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2024

Orestes Vlismas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Apostolos Ballas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Dimosthenis L. Hevas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – This study explores the relation of investing and signalling Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities with different types of real and accrual earnings smoothing. CSR expenses may lead to improved future performance (investing CSR activities) or inside information for future performance leads managers to undertake current CSR expenditures providing signal for firm’s prospects (signalling CSR activities). Considering the different explanations for the positive relation of the CSR activities with future operating performance, we expect investing (signalling) CSR activities to be negatively (positively) associated with (real and accrual) earnings smoothing.
Design/methodology/approach - We extract data from Thomson Reuters Datastream and ESG4 database for US listed firms over the period 2005-2019. Our final sample contains 15,043 firm-year observations.
Findings - Our empirical findings indicate that the investing (signalling) CSR activities are negatively (positively) associated with different types of earnings smoothing. Our empirical finings remain robust for alternative measure of CSR and the substitution between earnings management strategies. The relationship of investing/signalling CSR activities with earnings smoothing seems to be more profound in the absence of managerial motives to meet earnings targets but it is affected by the presence of a sustainability committee.
Originality - This study contributes to examining the relation of CSR with both types (accrual and real) of earnings smoothing under alternative interpretations for the positive relationship of CSR activities with future operating performance.
Practical implications - The new insights obtained in this study can enable investors and managers to understand the economic implications of CSR activities.
Social implications – Understanding the relations of CSR activities with earnings smoothing will enable managers to improve the informativeness of accounting information.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Earnings smoothing, Investing CSR activities, Expensing CSR activities

JEL Classification: L10, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Vlismas, Orestes and Karampinis, Nikolaos I. and Ballas, Apostolos A. and Hevas, Dimosthenis (Dimosthenes) L., Investing versus Signalling Corporate Social Responsibility Activities and their Association with Earnings Smoothing (January 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4711882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4711882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
583
RANK
576,053
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies