Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green is the New Gold: The Role of Professional Manager Compensation in Enhancing Environmental Responsibility in State-Owned Enterprises

48 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2024

Kun Luo

Anhui Normal University

Tianyu Gao

Anhui Normal University

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Troy Yao

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Abstract

Significant reforms within Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs), implemented about a decade ago, shifted the authority for appointing top managers from the government to the board of directors, allowing for market-oriented compensation for these managers. In light of this unique framework, this study aims to explore the impact of the professional managerial compensation system on the environmental responsibility performance of Chinese SOEs over the period spanning from 2011 to 2020. The empirical findings of this study reveal a positive association between the implementation of the professional managerial compensation system and the environmental responsibility performance of SOEs. This positive influence can be attributed to two primary mechanisms: the reduction of agency costs through improved governance and resource allocations, and the attraction of green investors through effective signalling. Furthermore, the beneficial effect of a professional managerial compensation system on environmental responsibility is enhanced in SOEs with more analyst coverage, equity incentives, operations in heavily polluting industries, or when professional managers hold top-tier positions like CEOs and CFOs. Moreover, the study establishes a positive correlation between environmental responsibility performance and enhanced firm value. These findings hold significant implications for managerial decision-making within the context of SOEs.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Professional managerial compensation system, Environmental responsibility performance, SOEs

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Kun and Gao, Tianyu and Tian, Gary Gang and Yao, Troy, Green is the New Gold: The Role of Professional Manager Compensation in Enhancing Environmental Responsibility in State-Owned Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4711798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4711798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
RANK
833,930
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies