Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forward-Looking Disclosure Effects on Equity Liquidity in China: Evidence from Md&A Text Analysis

32 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2024

Qingcheng Huang

Guangxi University

Hongjun Zeng

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Michael A. Goldstein

Babson College - Finance Division

Mohammad Zoynul Abedin

Teesside University

Abstract

Textual analysis of Chinese annual reports’ MD&A sections reveals a significant positive correlation between forward-looking disclosure and a firm's equity liquidity but is only significant in firms with high levels of internal control situated in regions with well-established legal environments. Mechanism tests suggest the disclosure of forward-looking increases equity liquidity by attracting greater attention from analysts and the media. Economic consequence tests point out that the influence of the disclosure of forward-looking on improving equity liquidity contributes to companies expanding their investment scale and reducing financing costs, suggesting that enhancing the efficiency of capital market information could bolster financial support for the real economy.

Keywords: Forward-Looking Disclosure, Stock Liquidity, Capital Market Allocation Efficiency, MD&A Text

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Qingcheng and Zeng, Hongjun and Goldstein, Michael A. and Abedin, Mohammad Zoynul, Forward-Looking Disclosure Effects on Equity Liquidity in China: Evidence from Md&A Text Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4711378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4711378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
V Agarwal , K A Mullally , Y Tang , B Yang
Mandatory portfolio disclosure, stock liquidity, and mutual fund performance
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 6 , p. 2733 - 2776 Posted: 2015
K Aljifri , K Hussainey
The determinants of forward-looking information in annual reports of UAE companies
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 22 , issue 9 , p. 881 - 894 Posted: 2007
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
RANK
549,043
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies