Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Corporate Insiders’ Financing Behavior Drives Stock Liquidity Commonality? A Share Pledging Perspective

48 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2024

Junping Zhang

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC)

Li Ping

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC)

Yunbi An

University of Windsor

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper investigates stock liquidity commonality from the perspective of controlling shareholders’ share pledging behavior. Using Chinese A-share market data from 2007 to 2020, we find that firms with controlling shareholders’ share pledging exhibit lower stock liquidity commonality than those without shareholders’ share pledging. We further show that controlling shareholders’ share pledging attracts analysts’ attention and foreign institutional investors, and helps improve corporate governance, which in turn reduces stock liquidity commonality. However, when the market experiences substantial declines, the liquidity commonality of firms with stock pledged loans by controlling shareholders is significantly higher than that of those without stock pledged loans, due to the additional stock price pressure stemming from margin calls and forced sales.

Keywords: Share pledging, stock liquidity commonality, controlling shareholder, analyst, institutional investor

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Junping and Ping, Li and An, Yunbi, How Corporate Insiders’ Financing Behavior Drives Stock Liquidity Commonality? A Share Pledging Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4711681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4711681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies