Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regional Variations in Corporate Tax Responsiveness: Evidence from Switzerland

72 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2024

Matthias Krapf

University of Basel

David Staubli

University of Lausanne

Abstract

Drawing on panel variation across Swiss municipalities and cantons, we show that the elasticity of corporate taxable income is large in remote, non-central locations and zero in cities. In the full panel, we  nd that an increase in a jurisdiction's corporate net-of-tax rate by 1% results in an increase in aggregate corporate income by around 3.5%. This effect becomes small and insignificant if we weight by initial tax base, which is large in cities, indicating that the overall tax base is inelastic. We explore margins of firms' responsiveness, revenue effects, and implications for regional policy.

Keywords: Corporate Income TaxTax ElasticityFiscal Federalism

Suggested Citation:

Krapf, Matthias and Staubli, David, Regional Variations in Corporate Tax Responsiveness: Evidence from Switzerland. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4712306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4712306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
841,369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies