Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Technology 4.0 in Accounting and Effect of Industry

27 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Sambandan Raja Sekaran

CMR University

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

This examination means to give a deliberate investigation of the effect of industry-4 on the bookkeeping framework, by dissecting the current writing, contemporary ideas, information and holes for future examination headings. The keywords "Industry 4.0," "accounting," and "accounting information" were used in each publication's title and abstract to determine which publications should be included in this study, which draws on information from a previously published literature collection of publishing databases from 2009 to 2023. In view of the pursuit, a sum of 90 diary articles were chosen, and data was gathered. The impact of Industry 4.0 on the bookkeeping not set in stone and the advancements impacted by the fourth modern transformation regarding bookkeeping (Large Information or Information Examination, Distributed computing, computer based intelligence, Blockchain, IoT, Mechanical Interaction Computerization) and changes sitting tight for the calling of bookkeeper. In the context of the creation of Industry 4.0 technologies, it was noted that the state, education, and business sectors coordinated their efforts.

Keywords: Industry 4.0; accounting; innovative technologies; accounting information.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sekaran, Sambandan Raja, Information Technology 4.0 in Accounting and Effect of Industry (January 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4712035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4712035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
F A Belfo , A Trigo
Accounting Information Systems: TraditionAnd Future Directions
Procedia Technology , volume 9 , p. 536 - 546 Posted: 2013
S Bonilla , H Silva , Terra Da Silva , M
Industry 4.0 And Sustainability Implications: A Scenario-Based Analysis Of The Impacts And Challenges
Sustainability , issue 10 , p. 37 - 40 Posted: 2018
F Boons , F Lüdeke-Freund
Business Models For SustainableInnovation: State-Of-The-Art And Steps Towards A Research Agenda
J. Clean. Prod , issue 45 , p. 9 - 19 Posted: 2013
G Bressanelli , F Adrodegari , M Perona , N Saccani
ExploringHow Usagefocused Business Models Enable Circular Economy Through Digital Technologies
Sustainability , issue 10 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
540
RANK
592,557
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies