Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance by Redirecting Royalty Flows: Estimating the Global Revenue Loss

45 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2024

Arjan Lejour

Tilburg University; CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis

Maarten van 't Riet

CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis; Leiden University

Abstract

Redirecting royalty payments across jurisdictions is a well-known strategy of large multinationals to reduce corporate income taxation. However the impact of these taxes on the direction and size of the royalty payments are seldom investigated.  We focus on this tax avoidance strategy on a global scale. Using OECD data we determine the impact of profit taxes on bilateral royalty payments. From a network analysis we know which payments could be tax motivated and which could only be business motivated. Next, we apply a gravity framework with PPML estimators to explain the variation in the latter payments. Using the regression outcomes to predict the business motivated content of the other royalty payments, we find that at least 18% is motivated by tax planning, which reduces tax revenues by 6.5 to 16 billion US dollar in 2018. We argue that both estimates are lower bounds due to missing observations. To the best of our knowledge these are the first estimates of worldwide tax avoidance by redirecting royalties.

Keywords: bilateral royalty flows, international tax avoidance, treaty shopping, withholding tax, Tax Havens

Suggested Citation:

Lejour, Arjan M. and van 't Riet, Maarten, Tax Avoidance by Redirecting Royalty Flows: Estimating the Global Revenue Loss. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4712412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4712412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
RANK
308,851
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies