Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Canadian Foundations Associated with Professional Sports Clubs - Case Studies and Comparison

Brouard, François, Litalien, Manuel, Perreault, Lucille (2023). Canadian Foundations Associated with Professional Sports Clubs – Case studies and comparison, Research Paper, Canadian network of partnership-oriented research on philanthropy (Philab)

172 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Francois Brouard

Carleton University, Sprott School of Business

Manuel Litalien

Independent

Lucille Perrault,

Independent

Date Written: December 16, 2023

Abstract

As part of a mapping exercise, this research report presents the collection of 14 case studies, all Canadian foundations associated with professional sports clubs. The cases studies as separate research notes focus on description and financial information for each individual foundation. An introduction presents an overview of the various notes, as well as a comparative analysis summarizing all the case studies. This mapping exercise is based on the T3010 from Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), and the objective is to provide in one document the complete series of research notes pertaining to all Canadian foundations associated with professional sports clubs.

Keywords: foundations, sport, club, team, philanthropy

JEL Classification: M4, Z2

Suggested Citation:

Brouard, Francois and Litalien, Manuel and Perrault,, Luciille, Canadian Foundations Associated with Professional Sports Clubs - Case Studies and Comparison (December 16, 2023). Brouard, François, Litalien, Manuel, Perreault, Lucille (2023). Canadian Foundations Associated with Professional Sports Clubs – Case studies and comparison, Research Paper, Canadian network of partnership-oriented research on philanthropy (Philab), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4712479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
F
Note on Nonprofits and charities taxation
Website. Online Posted: 2023-05-23
Apology to True North Youth Foundation
Canadian Pro Sport Teams and their Charities Posted: 2018-08-03
G Gumulka , C Barr , D Lasby , B Brownlee
Understanding the Capacity of Ontario Sports and Recreation Organizations Posted: 2005
Income Tax Act
Website. Online Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies