Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of the EU Regulation of Public Oversight Systems for Statutory Auditors *

Forthcoming in Spanish Accounting Review (Revista de Contabilidad)

47 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024 Last revised: 11 Mar 2024

Ana Gisbert

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Begoña Navallas

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Pablo Gomez Carrasco

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Elena de las Heras

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

Audit oversight plays a crucial role in ensuring audit quality. Despite the latest advances to bolster public audit oversight systems in Europe, in this paper we tackle the issues where harmonization has only been achieved slightly. Based on the content of European Directives, we show how significant differences still arise and impair the EU public audit oversight system. We study the supervisory and disciplinary duties, the organizational structure, the financing and transparency mechanisms of the most relevant Public Oversight Bodies in the EU, Australia, UK and EEUU. The analysis suggests that despite the common framework set out in EU Directives and Regulations, the current system of public oversight in Europe is still far from achieving a reasonable degree of harmonization, hindering the effectiveness of the audit oversight bodies. We contribute providing an institutional framework that allows to identify the impact of the most adopted characteristics on the independence and competence of each oversight body.

Keywords: Auditing, Directives 2014/56/EU and 2006/43/EC, Regulation 537/2014, enforcement, audit oversight, harmonization, institutional differences JEL classification: G30, G38, K22, M40, M48

JEL Classification: G30, G38, K22, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gisbert, Ana and Navallas, Begoña and Gomez Carrasco, Pablo and de las Heras, Elena, Implications of the EU Regulation of Public Oversight Systems for Statutory Auditors * (December 4, 2023). Forthcoming in Spanish Accounting Review (Revista de Contabilidad), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4714804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4714804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Lawrence J Abbott , Katherine A Gunny , Tracey Zhang , Chunqi
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
M Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
B R Binger , E Hoffman
Institutional persistence and change: The question of efficiency
Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics , p. 67 - 84 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
441,693
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies