Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation and processing costs: Evidence from the hyperlink mandate

55 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Laura Griffin

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: February 10, 2025

Abstract

We examine the SEC’s 2017 hyperlink mandate to explore how disclosure regulation intended to reduce one type of processing cost may have unintended consequences for other processing costs. We first examine whether the average investor processes 10-Ks more efficiently after the mandate, as expected by the SEC. While we do not observe on-average improvements, we do provide evidence that processing improves where theory predicts there will be greater benefits from information acquisition – at firms with weak information environments. We also provide some evidence suggesting integration costs increase for constrained investors post-mandate, consistent with the mandate leading to unintended consequences for some users. These findings have implications for academics as well as regulators as they evaluate future mandates.

Keywords: Disclosure processing costs, hyperlinks, SEC regulation, acquisition costs, integration costs

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Laura and Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Zechman, Sarah L. C., Regulation and processing costs: Evidence from the hyperlink mandate (February 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4714246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4714246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
References , C Smith , K
During the preparation of this work, the authors used ChatGPT in order to assist in the creation of code to extract the links from 10-K (and 10-Q) text files. After using this tool/service, the authors reviewed and edited the content as needed and take full responsibility for the content of the publication Aghamolla
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 76 , issue 2-3 , p. 248 - 252 Posted: 2023
D Aggarwal , A H Choi , Y H A Lee
The meme stock frenzy: Origins and implications. S. Cal
L. Rev , volume 96 Posted: 2022
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2019
S Asthana , S Balsam
The effect of EDGAR on the market reaction to 10-K filings
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 4-5 , p. 349 - 372 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
244,478
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies