Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy in the UK: Do Managers Talk the Talk before Walking the Walk?

British Journal of Management, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Yousry Ahmed

University of Bristol; Zagazig University

Mohamed Elsayed

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Bin Xu

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Date Written: February 2, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether managers employ the annual report textual disclosures as a conduit to communicate the probability of future corporate bankruptcy or to intentionally mislead stakeholders due to impression management incentives. We conduct various examinations around the information content of the tone conveyed by textual disclosures in the unstructured UK annual reports and the probability of corporate bankruptcy. We document that firms that communicate a more net positive tone are associated with lower bankruptcy risk. Importantly, this association is found to be stronger for firms whose managers have a lower incentive to mislead investors due to better board monitoring, stringent stock market regulation, and Big 4 audits. We also offer complementary evidence that firms conveying a more net positive tone exhibit higher future performance and earnings persistence, and lower future performance volatility. These firms are also less likely to exhibit extreme corporate policies and receive a qualified auditor’s opinion. Overall, this study sheds light on whether managers tend to inform or misinform (bury their heads in the sand) about corporate bankruptcy.

Keywords: unstructured annual reports, corporate disclosure, linguistic tone, corporate bankruptcy, tone management, textual analysis

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Yousry and Elsayed, Mohamed and Xu, Bin, Bankruptcy in the UK: Do Managers Talk the Talk before Walking the Walk? (February 2, 2024). British Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4714664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4714664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accounting-based bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Y Ahmed , T Elshandidy
The effect of bidder conservatism on M&A decisions: Text-based evidence from US 10-K filings
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 46 , p. 176 - 190 Posted: 2016
S Alberti
Directors 'leaving it far too late' as UK insolvencies surge Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
914,805
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies