Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Corporate Social Responsibility Spending, Family Control, and the Cost of Debt

British Accounting Review, 2024

60 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Naina Duggal

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay

Lerong He

SUNY College at Brockport

Tara Shankar Shaw

Indian Institute of Technology Bombay

Date Written: February 4, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how corporate compliance with the mandatory corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending regulation affects its cost of debt and how this effect varies with family control and ownership. Utilizing a longitudinal sample of Indian listed firms, we document that compliance with the CSR spending regulation leads to a lower cost of debt, and this relationship is more salient in non-family firms than in family firms. Moreover, the attenuation effect of family firms is stronger in firms both controlled and managed by families, with larger family ownership or managed by non-founder CEOs. We also find that the efficacy of compliance in reducing the cost of borrowing is stronger in firms engaged in CSR activities before the regulatory mandate. Our results are robust to endogeneity tests, different estimation methods, and alternative measures. Overall, we demonstrate that CSR compliance conveys valuable information on firm characteristics through both signaling and screening channels, consequently affecting debtholders’ evaluation of firm risk and shaping their lending decisions. However, debtholders’ assessments and decisions vary with firms’ ownership and control structure.

Keywords: Cost of Debt, Corporate Social Responsibility, Family Firms, Regulatory Compliance, India

Suggested Citation:

Duggal, Naina and He, Lerong and Shaw, Tara Shankar, Mandatory Corporate Social Responsibility Spending, Family Control, and the Cost of Debt (February 4, 2024). British Accounting Review, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4715745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
K Abbott , D Snidal
Hard and soft law in international governance
International Organization , volume 54 , p. 421 - 456 Posted: 2000
R Amit , Y Ding , B Villalonga , H Zhang
The role of institutional development in the prevalence and performance of entrepreneur and family-controlled firms
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 284 - 305 Posted: 2015
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
F Allen , R Chakrabarti , S De , J Qian , M Qian
Financing Firms in India
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 409 - 445 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Dhanushika Samarawickrama , Pallab Kumar Biswas , Helen Roberts
Social Disclosure, Business Groups and Firm Risk
EMEMAR-D-24-00271 · 50 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 53
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
572,087
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies