Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GrafTech: Responsible Investment in the Steel Industry

25 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2024

Evan Dudley

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Minkang Kim

Queen's University (Canada), Queen's School of Business

Eileen Yang

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 2, 2024

Abstract

In 2015, the Private Equity Group of Brookfield Asset Management (BAM) approached GrafTech as a “White Knight”, investing $855 million to reduce debt and privatizing the company for an enterprise value of $1.25 billion. GrafTech, once a leading global publicly traded manufacturer of graphite electrodes, was in a multi-year battle with an activist investor that culminated in the activist launching a proxy contest to gain control of the company. GrafTech had experienced a steep decline in earnings due to a combination of operational underperformance and a downturn in the global steel industry.

This study focuses on issues related to ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) or socially responsible investing in an industry known to include some of the largest polluters in terms of Greenhouse gas emissions. GrafTech supplies a key component to Electric Arc Furnaces (EAF) that rely on (recycled) scrap steel. EAFs are more environmentally friendly than Blast Furnace / Basic Oxygen Furnaces (BOF) used to produce steel. Acquiring GrafTech lies in the continuum of responsible investment, which spans the traditional shareholder model to venture philanthropy. Key performance indicators (KPIs) can be used to derive and monitor social returns; however, bridging the gap between investing in a firm and achieving responsible investment objectives often remains unclear. Students are expected to recommend a course of action that addresses the environmental, social and governance issues plaguing GrafTech and achieves an investment return for GrafTech’s investors.

Suggested Citation:

Dudley, Evan and Kim, Minkang and Yang, Yi, GrafTech: Responsible Investment in the Steel Industry (February 2, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4715093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4715093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies