Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Institutional Ownership and Enterprises' Labor Income Share

25 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2024

Chao Bi

Nanjing Audit University

Jinghua Wang

Nanjing Audit University

Abstract

Based on the sample of Chinese A-listed firms from 2003 to 2020, this paper investigates the effect of common institutional ownership on labor income share. The result shows that common institutional ownership can significantly increase firms’ labor income share. Mechanism tests indicate that common ownership can: 1) alleviate financial constraints by reducing the debt financing costs and increasing the trade credit financing, thus increasing the labor income share; 2) improve corporate innovation and therefore enhances the demand for highly-skilled labor, which eventually boost labor income share. Competitive hypothesis test represents that common institutional ownership can reduce the monopoly power of enterprises and decrease monopoly rent, so as to increase the proportion of labor in the distribution. Further analyses present that the network formed by the common ownership can effectively exert the financing support role of SOEs and the knowledge spillover effect of innovative-advantage firms, which contributes to the labor income share increasing of other related firms in the network connection. This study not only enriches the economic consequences of common institutional ownership, but also provides policy guidance for the government to further optimize the income-distribution pattern by deepening the reform of the financial market.

Keywords: Common institutional ownership, Labor income share, Financial constraint, R&D and innovation

Suggested Citation:

Bi, Chao and Wang, Jinghua, Common Institutional Ownership and Enterprises' Labor Income Share. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4716212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4716212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Acemoglu
When does labor scarcity encourage innovation?
J. Polit. Econ , volume 118 , issue 6 , p. 1037 - 1078 Posted: 2010
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: how technology displaces and reinstate labor
J. Econ. Perspect , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
Concentrating on the fall of the labor share
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 107 , issue 5 , p. 180 - 185 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
RANK
785,362
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies