Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Monitoring and Earnings Management: A Network Approach

63 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2024 Last revised: 3 May 2024

Wolfgang Drobetz

University of Hamburg

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Marwin Mönkemeyer

University of Cambridge; Northwestern University

Henning Schröder

Leuphana University Lüneburg; Hamburg Financial Research Center

Date Written: February 5, 2024

Abstract

Analyzing a large sample of U.S. firms over the 1990–2019 period, we show that firms with more central institutional investors in the equity holdings network engage less in accrual-based earnings management. This finding is robust to controlling for clique and common ownership, using alternative network and earnings properties, and extends to real earnings management. We establish causality using exogenous variation in network centrality and investor attention. The effect is most pronounced for institutions with a comparative advantage in exploiting monitoring information. Overall, our results suggest that central institutional investors gain an information advantage through access to the network’s resources, increasing their monitoring ability.

Keywords: Institutional investors; investor networks; monitoring; earnings management

JEL Classification: G23, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Drobetz, Wolfgang and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Mönkemeyer, Marwin and Schröder, Henning, Institutional Investor Monitoring and Earnings Management: A Network Approach (February 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4716603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4716603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
267,591
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies