Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Corporate Diversification Affect Earnings Management? A Path Analysis Approach

55 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2024

Hajar El Mouttaqui

American University of Sharjah

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Feras Salama

American University of Sharjah

Abstract

We examine whether and how corporate diversification affects earnings management. We find that diversified firms exhibit lower earnings management than comparable portfolios of single-segment firms and that the magnitude of reduction in earnings management increases with greater diversification. Using path analysis, we find that diversification decreases earnings management by reducing both earnings volatility and the need for external financing and by increasing the propensity to pay dividends. Our results are robust to using different measures of diversification and earnings management and continue to hold when we account for endogeneity using both the Heckman two-stage model and propensity score matching.

Keywords: Corporate diversification, earnings management, Internal capital markets, Path analysis.

Suggested Citation:

El Mouttaqui, Hajar and Gleason, Kimberly C. and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Salama, Feras, How Does Corporate Diversification Affect Earnings Management? A Path Analysis Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4717477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4717477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
580,030
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies