Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Integrated Thinking Can Be Detected in Management Disclosures in Annual Reports: Insights from a Large-Scale Text-Analysis Approach

Journal of Management Accounting Research, 35 (3),75–99. DOI:10.2308/JMAR-2022-082.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 6 Feb 2024

Ruth Dimes

University of Auckland Business School

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Li Chen

The Australian National University

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Integrated Thinking has been promoted as a way of revolutionizing decision-making to create sustainable value. Our study shows how disclosures made by managers in annual reports can reveal aspects of Integrated Thinking within organizations. We develop a new dictionary-based measure of Integrated Thinking and apply our measure to two samples: 685 reports over a nine-year period from South Africa, where Integrated Reporting is mandatory, and a matched sample of European firms where such reporting is voluntary. We provide evidence that our Integrated Thinking measure is distinct from overall reporting quality and generic ESG and CSR disclosures and is more nuanced and variable over time than Integrated Thinking proxies used in the prior literature. Our new measure is positively and significantly associated with improved return on assets (influenced by real decisions made by managers rather than capital market participants). Our findings will be of interest to reporting bodies, practitioners, and academics.

Keywords: Integrated Thinking, text analysis, management disclosure

undefined

Suggested Citation:

Dimes, Ruth and de Villiers, Charl and Chen, Li, How Integrated Thinking Can Be Detected in Management Disclosures in Annual Reports: Insights from a Large-Scale Text-Analysis Approach ( 2023). Journal of Management Accounting Research, 35 (3),75–99. DOI:10.2308/JMAR-2022-082., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4718165
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies