Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Presentation of Internal Audit in Everyday Work Life: A Study of Internal Auditor Independence in Swedish Public Sector Agencies

38 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Gunilla Eklöv Alander

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mikael Holmgren Caicedo

Stockholm Business School, Stockholm University

Abstract

This study considers how internal auditors present themselves to others and why they do so in such ways in order to understand the practice of impression management among internal auditors. Based on Goffman’s presentation of self in everyday life and 27 semi-structured interviews of internal auditors in the Swedish public sector, the analysis shows how internal auditors present themselves in two ways which we dub “insiders outside” and “outsiders inside”. As insiders outside, internal auditors strive to create distance from the organization and its members to safeguard their independence. As outsider inside, they seek get near them in order to enable the production of audit results. By focusing on internal auditors, the expressions they deploy and why they do so, we adduce a constant play of impression management that protects internal auditors from falling into the perceptions of their role held by others. We contribute to the understanding of social action in the internal audit sphere by presenting how internal auditors navigate across the complexities of internal audits and their role.

Keywords: Ambiguity, Impression management, independence, Internal audit

Suggested Citation:

Eklöv Alander, Gunilla and Holmgren Caicedo, Mikael, The Presentation of Internal Audit in Everyday Work Life: A Study of Internal Auditor Independence in Swedish Public Sector Agencies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4719594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Serving two masters: the association between audit Committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Z Ahmad , D Taylor
Commitment to independence by internal auditors: the effects of role ambiguity and role conflict
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 899 - 925 Posted: 2009
M Arena , K Jeppesen
The Jurisdiction of Internal Auditing and the Quest for Professionalization: The Danish Case
International Journal of Auditing , volume 14 , p. 111 - 129 Posted: 2010
N Brender , B Yzeiraj , E Fragniere
The management audit as a tool to foster corporate governance: An inquiry in Switzerland
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 30 , issue 8-9 , p. 785 - 811 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
RANK
644,694
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies