Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Rating Divergence and Stock Price Delays: Evidence from China

13 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Panpan Feng

Zhengzhou University of Light Industry

Jiangwu Pang

Zhengzhou University of Light Industry

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of ESG rating divergence on stock price delays in the context of the Chinese capital market. We find that ESG rating divergence significantly increases the stock price delays. Mechanism analysis results suggest that ESG rating divergence affects stock price delays by reducing information transparency and firm internal control quality. Heterogeneous analysis results indicate that the impact of ESG rating divergence on stock price delays is more pronounced in high-tech firms and when investor sentiment is high.

Keywords: ESG rating divergence, stock price delays, Information transparency, Internal control

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Panpan and Pang, Jiangwu, ESG Rating Divergence and Stock Price Delays: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4719877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty
J. Financ. Econ , volume 145 , issue 2 , p. 642 - 664 Posted: 2022
K S Bardos , M Ertugrul , L S Gao , F Berg , J F Koelbel , R Rigobon
Corporate social responsibility, product market perception, and firm value
J. Corp. Financ , volume 62 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2020
Y Bofinger , K J Heyden , B Rock
106322. Brooks, C., Oikonomou, I., 2018. The effects of environmental, social and governance disclosures and performance on firm value: A review of the literature in accounting and finance
Brit. Account. Rev , volume 134 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2022
J J Burke
Do boards take environmental, social, and governance issues seriously? Evidence from Media Coverage and CEO Dismissals
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 176 , p. 647 - 671 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
677,550
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies