Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk Perception, Female Directors and Greenwashing

14 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Yuying Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of female directors on corporate greenwashing and the influence of climate risk perception in China from 2012 to 2022. The results reveal that the presence of female directors significantly inhibits corporate greenwashing behaviors. We also find that climate risk perception improves the inhibitory effect of female directors on greenwashing. Furthermore, the moderating effect of climate risk perception is more visible in companies operating in highly competitive industries and those with low media attention. Our findings offer guidance for companies, investors and policymakers to recognize the female power in addressing climate risk and improving corporate governance.

Keywords: Climate risk, Board gender diversity, Greenwashing, China

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yuying, Climate Risk Perception, Female Directors and Greenwashing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4719875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Y An , H Jin , Q Liu , K Zheng
Media attention and agency costs: Evidence from listed companies in China
J Int Money Finance , volume 124 Posted: 2022
M Atif , M Hossain , M S Alam , M Goergen
Does board gender diversity affect renewable energy consumption?
J. Corp. Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
O B Ayoko
Teamwork, leadership and gender in organizations
J. Manag. Organ , volume 26 , p. 653 - 656 Posted: 2020
Z Chen , S Wang
Impact of Product Market Competition on Corporate Cash Flow Risk: Analysis Based on the Competition Degree of Industry and the Competitive Position of Enterprise
China Industrial Economics , volume 3 , p. 96 - 108 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
461,853
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies