Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All that Glitters is not Gold! Are M&As Post-Bank Reforms Just a Tool for Financial Camouflage?

55 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024

Doriana Cucinelli

University of Parma - Dipartimento di Scienze Economiche e Aziendali

Federica Ielasi

University of Florence

Simona Zambelli

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Date Written: February 7, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether the surge of mergers and acquisitions that occurred in Italy after the enactment, in 2016, of a new reform of Credit Cooperative Banks (CCBs) ultimately improved their performance. Our results highlight a puzzling deterioration in bank stability of the CCBs involved in mergers, with no relevant improvement in capitalization and profitability, reinforcing the view that bigger is not always better, at least in the context of CCBs. Our evidence sheds light on the perils underlying a massive consolidation process of local banking industries, calling for a regulatory recalibration and further research investigating the impact of different growth models capable of preserving the diversity and the unique characteristics of banks, rather than pursuing a “one size fits all” model.

Keywords: M&As, Banks, Performance, Bank Diversity

JEL Classification: G28, G34, L21

Suggested Citation:

Cucinelli, Doriana and Ielasi, Federica and Zambelli, Simona, All that Glitters is not Gold! Are M&As Post-Bank Reforms Just a Tool for Financial Camouflage? (February 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4719291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
416,013
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies