Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Control of a Charity's Subsidiaries: The Saga of OpenAI

Tax Notes Federal, Volume 182, (2024)

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 24-01

Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-04

9 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Ellen P. Aprill

Loyola Law School Los Angeles; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Rose Chan Loui

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), School of Law, Students

Jill R. Horwitz

Northwestern law; Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: February 8, 2024

Abstract

In this article, the authors demonstrate how OpenAI’s corporate structure was designed to protect the primary of the nonprofit corporation’s charitable purpose and tax-exempt status. OpenAI started as a tax-exempt, nonprofit company organized in Delaware, OpenAI Inc. Its Delaware Certificate of Incorporation states that its purposes were “to provide for research, development and distribution of technology related to artificial intelligence” in order to “benefit the public.” The board of this entity later determined that charitable gifts and grants were insufficient to achieve its charitable purposes. It therefore created a structure designed to allow for private investment and, at the same time, to protect its charitable purposes. It created a for-profit limited partnership that elected to be treated as a corporation for tax purposes and a for-profit LLC as a subsidiary of that limited partnership. Investors in both these entities were put on notice as to the limited possibility of return on investments. Moreover, both of these entities are controlled by the board of the nonprofit entity through its ownership and control of a disregarded LLC that is the general partner of the for-profit limited partnership and the manager of the for-profit LLC.

Thus, the nonprofit entity carefully structured operations so that it retained control of both the for-profit limited partnership and the for-profit LLC. But unless the members of the board of a nonprofit fulfill their fiduciary duties, which run to the nonprofit entity in light of its charitable purposes, even the most carefully thought-out structures are for naught. It appears that the board members who ousted CEO Sam Altman, if only temporarily, had concerns about his commitment to the charitable purpose.

Indeed, the nonprofit and tax-exempt purposes of the enterprise have been lost in public discussion. It is unclear whether the newly reconstituted board can or will want to advance the company’s charitable purpose. If the new board decides to change the charitable purposes or even dissolve the charitable entity, existing charitable assets would be required to remain devoted to charitable purposes and procedures as specified under state law and the nonprofit’s bylaws followed. Challenges from private parties, such as ousted board members are possible, although unlikely [Is that right?] Whatever happens in OpenAI’s next chapter, protecting the charitable interests is likely to be a heroic task in the face of overwhelming profit-making incentives. Given the amounts at stake and the public interest in advancing charity, it is imperative that some regulatory authority remain alert.

Suggested Citation:

Aprill, Ellen P. and Chan Loui, Rose and Horwitz, Jill R., Board Control of a Charity's Subsidiaries: The Saga of OpenAI (February 8, 2024). Tax Notes Federal, Volume 182, (2024), UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 24-01, Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
811
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,401
RANK
69,755
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies