Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A multidimensional analysis of corporate governance mechanisms and their impact on sustainable economic development: A case study of Ghana’s financial sector

12 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2024

Sampson Atuahene

Zhejiang Normal University; Nottingham Trent University - Department of Accounting and Finance; Jiangsu University - School of Finance and Economics

Qian Xusheng

Zhejiang Normal University - College of Teacher Education

Date Written: January 23, 2024

Abstract

Efficiency remains pivotal to the banking sector, serving as a linchpin for resource allocation and competitive prowess. This study delves into the intricate dynamics between corporate governance and banking efficiency in Ghana, with an analytical lens on cost efficiency (CE) and total efficiency (TE). Utilizing Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA), our investigation spans over a decade (2008–2019) and encompasses a data set of 23 Ghanaian banks.The study findings unveils that rigorous corporate governance mechanisms, as quantified by the Corporate Governance Index (CGI), exert a salutary influence on both cost and total efficiencies. Moreover, a well-defined Risk Management Index (RMI) positively correlates with cost efficiency, albeit without a substantial impact on total efficiency. Conversely, the study identifies a counterintuitive effect: the current make-up of supervisory boards, as gauged by the Supervisory Board Index (SBI), inversely impacts both efficiency metrics, signaling sub-optimal governance structures. Significantly, the research also highlights a pressing concern: the average total efficiency of Ghanaian banks lags behind the global benchmarks prescribed by the World Bank. This discrepancy underscores an exigency for efficiency optimization within the sector.The study thereby offers invaluable insights for multiple stakeholders—including regulatory bodies, investment communities, and policymakers—by delineating the governance variables that can enhance or impede banking efficiency. It also identifies actionable avenues for improvement, specifically in the realms of risk management and board composition, with the potential to catalyse a transformation in Ghana’s banking landscape.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Bank efficiency, Cost and technical efficiency, Data envelopment analysis

Suggested Citation:

Atuahene, Sampson Agyapong and Xusheng, Qian, A multidimensional analysis of corporate governance mechanisms and their impact on sustainable economic development: A case study of Ghana’s financial sector (January 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4720782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
S C Obiora
Impact of banking and financial systems on environmental sustainability: an overarching study of developing, emerging, and developed economies
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 19 Posted: 2020
E Asafo-Adjei
Financial sector and economic growth amid external uncertainty shocks: insights into emerging economies
PLoS One , volume 16 , issue 11 Posted: 2021
G A Bokpin
Bank governance, regulation and risk-taking in Ghana
J. Afr. Bus , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2016
R A Atuahene
Corporate Governance and Financial Performance: Evidence from the Ghanian Banking Sector Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies