Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expression Reflects Mind: Evidence from CEO's Interview Video and Audit Fee

50 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024 Last revised: 20 Feb 2024

Jing Dai

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Xiaorong Li

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Date Written: February 8, 2024

Abstract

Neuropsychological studies have shown that observers unconsciously assess an individual’s credibility based on the observed degree of facial expression fabrication. Building on this theory, we investigate whether auditors incorporate their client CEOs’ dynamic hemifacial asymmetry of expressions (DHFA) into the pricing decision. Consistent with the neuroscience prediction that a high level of DHFA implies a low degree of credibility, we find that auditors charge higher audit fees to firms whose CEOs exhibit greater DHFA in CNBC’s video interviews about corporate earnings. This effect is more pronounced when auditors have a longer relationship with and are geographically closer to their clients, suggesting that additional information from social interactions validates auditors’ preliminary assessments of a CEO’s expression fabrication. We also find that CEOs’ DHFA is positively associated with real earnings management activities, indicating that auditors’ wariness towards CEOs with high DHFA is more likely due to a rational decision than a cognitive bias. Our results are robust to employing the propensity score matching approach, including auditor fixed effects, using an alternative measure of DHFA, and controlling for additional CEO and video characteristics. Collectively, our findings suggest that auditors form rational perceptions on CEOs’ credibility based on their DHFA when making pricing decisions.

Keywords: Dynamic Hemifacial Asymmetry of Expressions, Audit Fees, CEOs’ Video Interviews

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Jing and Huang, Rong and Li, Xiaorong, Expression Reflects Mind: Evidence from CEO's Interview Video and Audit Fee (February 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4720163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R Adolphs
Trust in the brain
Nature Neuroscience , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 192 - 193 Posted: 2002
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 47: Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit Posted: 1983
D Aobdia , E Li , K Ramesh , M Shen
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Auditing Standards. TheAuditor's Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement AS 2301. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Auditing Standards. The Auditor's Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement
AS , volume 12 Posted: 2019
A P Atkinson , W H Dittrich , A J Gemmell , A W Young
Emotion perception from dynamic and static body expressions in point-light and full-light displays
Perception , volume 33 , issue 6 , p. 717 - 746 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
315,603
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies