Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How the Uncertainty Associated with Social Issues Influences the Financial Returns of Corporate Philanthropy

The Wharton School Research Paper

45 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024

Luis Ballesteros

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Tyler Wry

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School, Management Department

Date Written: February 9, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether the varying financial returns to philanthropy can be explained by the uncertainty associated with the issues to which a firm donates. We start with the premise that stakeholders react favorably to donations they view as effective and appropriate for specific social needs, which can lead to financial advantages for the donor firm. However, the reliance on various cues for such assessments may differ based on the uncertainty surrounding social issues. For stable issues, where the social need and redress strategies are relatively clear and direct, we expect that proximate cues such as the donation amount and a firm’s donation experience are likely indicators of philanthropic effectiveness, thereby predicting its financial returns. Conversely, when donations target uncertain issues where the social need is unclear or evolving, these cues become less informative, prompting stakeholders to consider broader cues, such as firm reputation. Our analysis introduces a method for measuring the country- and time-specific uncertainty of issues and applies it to evaluate donations from the world’s largest 2,000 firms from 2007 to 2018. The significance of our study is underscored by the increasing engagement of firms in social issues fraught with high uncertainty.

Keywords: Corporate Philanthropy, Grand challenges, Social Uncertainty, Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: D22, D64, L14, L22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ballesteros, Luis and Wry, Tyler, How the Uncertainty Associated with Social Issues Influences the Financial Returns of Corporate Philanthropy (February 9, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4721269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
A Adbi , C Chatterjee , A Mishra
How do MNEs and Domestic Firms Respond Locally to a Global Demand Shock? Evidence from a Pandemic
Management Science Posted: 2022-03
B Akdeniz , R J Calantone , C M Voorhees
Effectiveness of marketing cues on consumer perceptions of quality: The moderating roles of brand reputation and third-party information
Psychology & Marketing. Wiley Online Library , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 89 Posted: 2013
D Altig
Economic uncertainty before and during the COVID-19 pandemic
Elsevier B.V. 191: 104274 Posted: 2020
S Alvarez , A Afuah , C Gibson
Editors' comments: Should management theories take uncertainty seriously? Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
495,993
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies