Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles and Content for Downstream Emissions Disclosures

Blavatnik School of Government Working Paper 2024-058

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 24-050

12 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2024 Last revised: 21 Feb 2024

Robert S. Kaplan

Harvard Business School

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: January 1, 2024

Abstract

In a previous paper, we proposed the E-liability carbon accounting algorithm for companies to measure and subsequently reduce their own and their suppliers’ emissions. Some investors and stakeholders, however, want companies to also be accountable for downstream emissions, those produced by their customers, their customers’ customers, and so on down a value chain. In this paper, we describe the misconception of attempting to have all companies measure and be accountable for downstream emissions. But we also propose how to handle the important exception, when end-use consumers are the culpable party producing the downstream emissions.

The paper uses several consumer-product examples to develop three principles for corporate disclosure of downstream emissions. Principle 1: Only companies whose products are directly used by end-consumers (B2C companies) should be required to disclose downstream emissions. Principle 2: Only B2C companies with products that require energy for consumer use, and for which a reasonable causal link exists between the product’s sourcing and design decisions and the emissions from consumer use, should be subject to downstream disclosure. Principle 3: Since companies have limited influence on consumers’ quantity of use of their products, a B2C company’s downstream disclosures should focus on emissions per unit of consumer use, not on total emissions. The paper concludes by explaining why reports of downstream emissions are “disclosures” not “accounting.”

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Robert S. and Ramanna, Karthik, Principles and Content for Downstream Emissions Disclosures (January 1, 2024). Blavatnik School of Government Working Paper 2024-058, Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 24-050, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Bastian Distler , Jürgen Ernstberger , Mario Keiling , Felix Müller , Mike Szabo
Incorporating Carbon Emissions into Decision-Making - The Case of Transactional Connectivity
36 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 11 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 511
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Karthik Ramanna
We Can't Fix Climate Change; But We Can Create a System That Will
20 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,338
RANK
86,364
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies