Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Practices in South Asia: A Comparative Study of India and Nepal

7 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024

Prof. Arhan Sthapit, PhD

Nepal Open University

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: The present study examines on the corporate governance (CG) practices prevalent in India and Nepal, as Corporate Governance emphasizes on fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility. The present study is an attempt to add value to this domain since no previous study comparing the CG practices in these countries was so far.

Problem: India and Nepal had their own share of financial crises and problems besetting the trust of investors while the former took several measures to instil trust among the stakeholders, shareholders, regulatory bodies and the public. Nepal, on the other hand, has taken initiatives in the late 2010s and is expected to fulfil the intended objectives. The present study compares and contrasts the CG practices in these two countries.

Methodology: The present study is a narrative review that encompasses data from the published articles, government data, external affairs ministry, standard organizations, books, research papers etc. Further, the present study also theoretically analyses the gap and provides suggestions to the policy makers.

Findings: From the theoretical analyses, it can be inferred that although both countries experienced with financial scandals, India has been a forerunner in installing CG practices widely and gained edge compared to Nepal. On the other hand, Nepal has taken the necessary initiatives to move forward in the corporate ladder with its manpower, closeness to India both geographically and politically, and vibrant economy.

Originality: The present study is a first of its kind attempt to compare the corporate governance practices between India and Nepal while the future studies should focus on CG practices in all SAARC countries as well.

Keywords: corporate governance, financial crisis, financial scandal, Nepal, India, stability, shareholder, stakeholder, transparency

Suggested Citation:

Sthapit, Arhan, Corporate Governance Practices in South Asia: A Comparative Study of India and Nepal (January 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4721714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Abhilash , S S Shenoy , D K Shetty
Overview of corporate governance research in India: A bibliometric analysis
Cogent Business and Management , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
W Affes , A Jarboui
The impact of corporate governance on financial performance: A crosssector study
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 374 - 394 Posted: 2023
A Ali , W Alim , J Ahmed , S Nisar
Yoke of Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: A Study of Listed Firms in Pakistan
MPRA Paper Posted: 2022
T Kirchmaier , C Gerner-Beuerle
Corporate Governance in South Asia: Trends and Challenges. Mandaluyong: Asian Development Bank Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
662,989
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies