Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of MNE's Local Reputation on the Financial Rents from Responding to Large Disasters

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4721289

38 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024 Last revised: 11 Apr 2024

Luis Ballesteros

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: February 9, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the financial implications of multinational enterprises' (MNEs) philanthropic responses to international disasters. While MNEs have been the fastest-growing sector in disaster relief philanthropy, there is ambiguity surrounding the financial consequences of their donations. Using a firm’s country reputation as a theoretical lens, I posit that stakeholders are more influenced by a company’s pre-existing reputation than the actual donation amount when its social value is ambiguous. Employing a staggered difference-in-differences approach on data from 2005 to 2019, I find that initial donors with favorable country reputations experience unexpected gains compared to initial donors with an unfavorable reputation. Additionally, subsequent firms matching the donations of initial donors with good reputations also observed positive revenue effects. However, the impact is less clear for subsequent donors that diverged in donation amounts. The findings underscore the significance of MNE reputation in influencing stakeholder perceptions and consequent financial outcomes in disaster philanthropy. Furthermore, they challenge the prevailing notion that swift, large donations invariably lead to positive financial results, offering insights for more strategic philanthropic engagements in volatile contexts.

Keywords: multinational enterprises, corporate philanthropy, disaster relief, nonmarket strategy, corporate social responsability, grand challenges

JEL Classification: D22, D64, L14, L22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Ballesteros, Luis, The Influence of MNE's Local Reputation on the Financial Rents from Responding to Large Disasters (February 9, 2024). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4721289, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4721289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility a review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
G Ahuja , S Yayavaram
PERSPECTIVE--Explaining Influence Rents: The Case for an Institutions-Based View of Strategy
Organization Science , volume 22 , p. 1631 - 1652 Posted: 2011-02
C G Asmussen , A Fosfuri
Orchestrating corporate social responsibility in the multinational enterprise
Strategic Management Journal , volume 40 , issue 6 , p. 894 - 916 Posted: 2019
C G Asmussen , A Fosfuri , M M Larsen , G D Santangelo
Corporate social responsibility in the global value chain: A bargaining perspective
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 54 , issue 7 , p. 1175 - 1192 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
765,896
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies