Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Nature and Functions of Boards of Directors

IESE Business School Working Paper No. WP-1307-E (Chapter 1)

35 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2024 Last revised: 24 Feb 2024

Jordi Canals

IESE, University of Navarra

Date Written: October 6, 2022

Abstract

Recent corporate governance crises involving well-known firms such as General Electric, Wells Fargo, WeWork and Wirecard among others have called into question the functionality and efficiency of the current dominant model of boards of directors. In most OECD countries, large and mid-size companies have adopted this model, which incorporates a large number of independent directors appointed by shareholders.

While the model offers advantages, it also presents critical weaknesses. In this paper, I will review the origins and main qualities of this model, then trace how changes in ownership and new disruptive challenges have raised concerns about its effectiveness. I will also describe the main contextual factors that companies should consider when choosing a board of directors' model. Finally, I will present the steward model, in which the board as a whole develops competencies that ensure effective governance of the firm.

Keywords: board of directors,corporate governance, institutional investors, shareholders

Suggested Citation:

Canals, Jordi, The Changing Nature and Functions of Boards of Directors (October 6, 2022). IESE Business School Working Paper No. WP-1307-E (Chapter 1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4721856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Mayer Franks
the company based on purpose (Bartlett and Ghoshal Posted: 1994
Edmans
board collaboration with the CEO and the board as team (Hambrick, 1987; Holmstrom and Milgrom Posted: 1991
A References Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive Effects of Common Ownership
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
534,717
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies