Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Ownership, Bidder Termination Provisions and Self-Selection in the Market for Mergers & Acquisitions

58 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024

Max Daniel Eilert

University of Lausanne; Swiss Finance Institute

Sebastian Rötzer

Austrian Financial Market Authority

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

Bidder termination provisions allow acquiring firms to abandon a takeover under adverse circumstances.

We present a simple model of optimal contracting under common ownership, where partial internalization of the return on target shares leads to a shift of the lower bound of acceptable deal to the left, i.e. towards ex ante less desirable deals.

Our theory predicts that this shift distorts the self-selection of low synergy acquirers and causes an overall loss of efficiency in the market for corporate control which is associated with an increasing share of deals that include bidder termination provisions.

We document broad empirical support for this prediction in a large sample of mergers and acquisitions of publicly listed firms in the U.S., suggesting that the rise of common ownership has detrimental effects on the wealth of acquirer shareholders without cash flow rights in target firms.

Keywords: Common ownership, mergers and acquisitions, termination fees, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, D44, K22

Suggested Citation:

Eilert, Max Daniel and Rötzer, Sebastian, Common Ownership, Bidder Termination Provisions and Self-Selection in the Market for Mergers & Acquisitions (January 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4722631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Afsharipour
Transforming the allocation of deal risk through reverse termination fees. Vand
L. Rev , volume 63 Posted: 2010
M Antón , J Azar , M Gine , L X Lin
Beyond the target: M&A decisions and rival ownership
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 44 - 66 Posted: 2022
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common Ownership, Competition, and Top Management Incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2023
J Azar , M Schmalz , I Tecu
Common Ownership Does Not Have Anti-Competitive Effects in the Airline Industry Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
564,093
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies