Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has Corporate Efficiency Changed over Time and with Change in Technology? A Stochastic Frontier Approach

Chollete, L., Lu, C.-C., & Ray, R. (2023). Has Corporate Efficiency Changed Over Time and With Change in Technology? A Stochastic Frontier Approach. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0(0). https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X231179771

35 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2024

Lorán Chollete

Sacred Heart University - Jack Welch College of Business

Ching-Chih Lu

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Rina Ray

University of Colorado at Denver

Date Written: April 5, 2023

Abstract

Corporate efficiency matters to accountants and financial economists. Key management, legal, external stakeholder, and regulatory decisions often hinge on accurate assessment of efficiency. We compute efficiency for a large group of U.S. firms over six decades using traditional accounting-based and tangible measures of performance, or absolute efficiency. Then, we propose an alternative approach to compute relative efficiency based on a stochastic frontier method. This latter approach incorporates key internal inputs such as managerial incentives and investment in intangible assets such as R&D and advertising, as well as external inputs such as industry competition and the disciplinary role of debt. We observe a decline over time in traditional accounting-based efficiency for the median firm. The burst of the dot com bubble had the greatest impact on traditional measures, with higher efficiency loss than in the great recession. In contrast, the oil crisis, the burst of the dot com bubble, and the great recession in that order showed the steepest declines in efficiency estimated with the stochastic frontier. Ignoring these extreme shocks, the stochastic frontier method provides U-shaped curves, in which corporate efficiency declined between 1960 and 1990 and increased since then.

Keywords: Accounting Efficiency, Competition, Managerial Incentives, Market Value Added, Stochastic Frontier

JEL Classification: G10,M40,M41

Suggested Citation:

Chollete, Lorán and Lu, Ching-Chih and Ray, Rina, Has Corporate Efficiency Changed over Time and with Change in Technology? A Stochastic Frontier Approach (April 5, 2023). Chollete, L., Lu, C.-C., & Ray, R. (2023). Has Corporate Efficiency Changed Over Time and With Change in Technology? A Stochastic Frontier Approach. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0(0). https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X231179771, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
H Baek , J Pagán
Executive compensation and corporate production efficiency: A stochastic frontier approach
Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics , volume 41 , p. 27 - 41 Posted: 2002
G Battese , T Coelli
Prediction of firm-level technical efficiencies with a generalized frontier production function and panel data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 38 , p. 387 - 399 Posted: 1988
G Battese , T Coelli
A model for technical inefficiency effects in a stochastic frontier production function for panel data
Empirical Economics , volume 20 , p. 325 - 332 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
759,678
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies