Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Outside Directors’ Equity Compensation on Labor Investment

55 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2024

Ka Sing Choi

Lingnan University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Chris X. Zhao

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

A significant increase of outside director equity compensation (ODEC) in the past two decades has attracted much debate. Against this backdrop, this study examines how ODEC affects several aspects of corporate labor investments. Using a sample of U.S. firms during the period from 2006 to 2019, we find that ODEC is associated with a smaller absolute difference between the actual and expected net hiring, i.e., higher efficiency in labor investment. Our findings are robust to alternative proxies for ODEC and labor investment efficiency, and endogeneity tests. In addition, we find that the impact of ODEC on labor investment efficiency is less (more) pronounced for firms with greater institutional ownership or CEO ownership (human capital-intensive and complex firms). We also find that ODEC increases the timeliness of labor adjustment. Finally, we provide evidence that equity compensation incentivizes outside directors to reduce employee injuries and increase pro-social employee policies, which can potentially improve firm value in the long run. Overall, our findings contribute to the debate on the effectiveness of ODEC by showing its impact on labor investments.

Keywords: Outside Director Equity Compensation, Labor Investment, Corporate Governance, Employee Injuries, Pro-social Employee Policies

JEL Classification: G34, J23, J28

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Ka Sing and Jung, Boochun and Zhao, Chris X. and Zhou, Gaoguang, The Effect of Outside Directors’ Equity Compensation on Labor Investment (January 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4722921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
R B Adams , A N Licht , L Sagiv
Shareholders and stakeholders: How do directors decide?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 12 , p. 1331 - 1355 Posted: 2011
B R Agle , T Donaldson , R E Freeman , M C Jensen , R K Mitchell , D J Wood
Dialogue: Toward superior stakeholder theory
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 153 - 190 Posted: 2008
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
701
RANK
514,660
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies