Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting in a Bind -Comparing Executive Compensation Regulations in the US and the UK

Notre Dame Journal of International and Comparative Law

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 5/2024

38 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Bobby V. Reddy

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: February 10, 2024

Abstract

Executive compensation is a topical issue on both sides of the Atlantic, with concerns that the pay of managers of US and UK publicly traded companies has spiralled out of control. However, a minority narrative has emerged that a discrepancy in pay levels favoring executives of US over UK companies is leading to corporations shunning the London Stock Exchange and an exodus of talent from the UK to the US. When determining the reasons for cross-border pay variations, regulation is an obvious candidate for blame, but is it the only piece of the puzzle? In this article, US and UK executive compensation regulations are compared, finding that the UK does indeed have a stricter regulatory environment, with, in particular, shareholders being given a binding "say-on-pay" in contrast to a simple advisory vote in the US. The divergence in pay levels between the US and the UK cannot, though, solely be attributed to differences in regulations, and cultural attitudes toward high pay also play a role, together with the general outperformance of the US exchanges in recent years. It is easy to get in a bind over regulations, but with executive compensation, other factors are also at play.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Say On Pay, Dodd-Frank, London Stock Exchange, Capital Markets Reform, Directors' Remuneration

JEL Classification: F66, J33, J38, G18, G38, K22, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Reddy, Bobby, Getting in a Bind -Comparing Executive Compensation Regulations in the US and the UK (February 10, 2024). Notre Dame Journal of International and Comparative Law, University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 5/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
§ , volume 162
See Newport
Tax Reform: A Deeper Dive into Amended Section 162(m) Posted: 2018-06-05
Regina Olshan , Paula Todd
Section 162(m): Limit of Compensation
PRAC. L , volume 1 Posted: 2015
Aronson V Lewis
, volume 812
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
271,899
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies