Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Predictive Ability of Share-Based Compensation Expense

Accounting and Business Research

Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Alaa Alhaj Ismail

Coventry University

Sami Adwan

University of Sussex

Date Written: February 9, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the ability of share-based compensation expense (SBCE) to predict future
firm performance relative to other employee compensation expenses. It also examines whether
cash settled-based compensation expense has greater predictive ability for future performance
than equity settled expense. Using a sample of 443 firms listed in the UK between 2005 and
2018, we find that the predictive ability of SBCE is statistically significantly higher than that
of other employee compensation expenses. Furthermore, the results show that the predictive
ability of SBCE classified as cash settled is statistically significantly higher than that of equity
settled SBCE. Overall, our findings suggest that recognised SBCE, particularly cash settled
SBCE (i.e. fair value-adjusted expense), is useful for predicting future firm performance.

Keywords: share-based compensation, cash settled-based compensation, equity settled-based compensation, predictability, employee compensation expenses, fair value

JEL Classification: M41, M52,J33, G32.

Suggested Citation:

Alhaj Ismail, Alaa and Adwan, Sami, The Predictive Ability of Share-Based Compensation Expense (February 9, 2024). Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722119
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
273
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies