Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determine the accounting treatment of the Frontera Generation Holdings LLC new debt facility its associated costs and the repayment of the Lonestar Generation LLC debt facility and its associated deferred financing costs

7 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2024

Brenda Kiwagama

Eliassen Group (Formerly Fidato Partners)

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

This memo documents the US GAAP accounting analysis of the accounting treatment of the Frontera Generation Holdings LLC new debt facility its associated deferred financing costs as well as the repayment of the Lonestar Generation LLC debt and its associated deferred financing costs.

Key Accounting Considerations:
Issue #1: Determination of whether the refinance represents an extinguishment of debt versus a modification
Issue #2: Accounting treatment related to existing Lonestar Generation LLC deferred financing costs
Issue #3: Accounting treatment related to the new Frontera Generation Holdings LLC credit facility and its associated deferred financing costs
Issue #4: Accounting treatment for the amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs

Keywords: Debt Restructure, Debt Extinguishment, Debt Modification

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kiwagama, Brenda, Determine the accounting treatment of the Frontera Generation Holdings LLC new debt facility its associated costs and the repayment of the Lonestar Generation LLC debt facility and its associated deferred financing costs (June 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4724711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4724711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
have been evaluated based on both the effective interest method and straight-line amortization of costs. Refer to the excel file, linked below, for the calculations. Discount and DFC Amortization Calc.xlsx These calculations have been summarized on an annual basis in the tables below: Based on the above calculations, the debt discount, amortized on a straight-line basis, would result in $47K of interest expense per month, with annual differences no larger than $22k. As a result, there is no material difference between the effective interest method and straight-line amortization, so the debt discount will be amortized on a straight-line basis. Based on the above calculations, the debt issuance costs, amortized on a straight-line basis, would result in $226K of interest expense per month, with annual differences no larger than $102k. As a result, there is no material difference between the effective interest method and straight-line amortization
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies