Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Disclosures: an Empirical Test of Political Economy Theory

Priyadarshani, W. a. N., Yusoff, S. K. M., & Azam, S. M. F. (2023). Determinants of corporate disclosures: An empirical test of political economy theory. International Journal of Applied Economics, Finance and Accounting, 17(2), 483–496. https://doi.org/10.33094/ijaefa.v17i2.1210

14 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2024

Nadeesha Priyadarshanie

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Siti Khalidah Md Yusoff

Management & Science University (MSU)

S. M. Ferdous Azam

Management and Science University (MSU)

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

The principle objective of this study was to employ political economy theory in order to examine the determinants that impact the corporate disclosure of listed companies in Sri Lanka. Data was gathered from 122 companies over a period of eight years, from 2012 to 2019. Corporate disclosures of Sri Lankan listed corporations were analyzed using Partial Least Square Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM). Determinants of corporate disclosures have been examined in light of political economy theory, namely legitimacy, isomorphic effects, and stakeholder power. The amount of corporate disclosure was quantified using an unweighted index in this research. This study found that legitimacy, isomorphic influences, and stakeholder power are positively associated with the level of corporate disclosure. Findings suggest that managers use corporate disclosures as a strategy to legitimize themselves, manage stakeholder power, and cope with isomorphic influences. This is the first research so far to utilize the PLS-SEM to identify the determinants of corporate disclosures. Considering emerging economies across the globe, the findings of the study provide valuable insights for companies to understand how political economy theory affects the level of corporate disclosures

Keywords: Colombo stock exchange,Corporate disclosures,Political economy theory,Structural equation modelling

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Priyadarshanie, Nadeesha and Md Yusoff, Siti Khalidah and Azam, S. M. Ferdous, Determinants of Corporate Disclosures: an Empirical Test of Political Economy Theory ( 2023). Priyadarshani, W. a. N., Yusoff, S. K. M., & Azam, S. M. F. (2023). Determinants of corporate disclosures: An empirical test of political economy theory. International Journal of Applied Economics, Finance and Accounting, 17(2), 483–496. https://doi.org/10.33094/ijaefa.v17i2.1210, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4725935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Al-Razeen , Y Karbhari
Interaction between compulsory and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabian corporate annual reports
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 351 - 360 Posted: 2004
A Amran , R Haniffa
Evidence in development of sustainability reporting: A case of a developing country
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 141 - 156 Posted: 2011
A M Awn , S F Azam
The determinants of investment in Islamic Sukuk: A study of Libyan investors
International Journal of Business Society , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 9 - 19 Posted: 2020
D G Barako , P Hancock , H Izan
Factors influencing voluntary corporate disclosure by Kenyan companies
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 125 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies