Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The intensity of bank-firm relationships and income smoothing: Evidence from Japan

44 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2024

Yasuharu Aoki

Hitotsubashi University

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

Focusing on the Japanese bank-based financial system, this study examines how the intensity of bank-firm relationships (IBR) affects borrower firms’ income smoothing behavior. As a proxy for IBR, it uses the ratio of loans from relationship banking to total debt (LRB/TD), which is a product of the ratio of total bank loans to total debt (TBL/TD) and the ratio of loans from relationship banking to total bank loans (LRB/TBL). I measure income smoothing by combining three accrual-based smoothing indicators that are commonly used in the literature. The regression results show that LRB/TBL is not systematically associated with income smoothing, but LRB/TD and TBL/TD are positively associated with it. This finding supports the hold-up hypothesis that banks prompt borrowers to smooth earnings in order to avoid intense competition among suppliers of finance and indirect costs of financial distress, rather than the monitoring hypothesis that effective monitoring by banks reduces managerial incentives to convey private information to investors or extract private benefits through income smoothing. The results also suggest that the distinction between private and public debt is more important than the distinction between relationship and transaction banking as a determinant of income smoothing.

Keywords: accrual-based smoothing, bank-firm relationship, debt structure, income smoothing, Japan, private debt, public debt, real smoothing, relationship banking, transaction banking

JEL Classification: G21, G32, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aoki, Yasuharu, The intensity of bank-firm relationships and income smoothing: Evidence from Japan (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4725418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4725418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
F Allen , E Carletti , X Gu , A Berger , P Molyneux , & J Wilson
The roles of banks in financial systems
The Oxford handbook of banking , p. 40 - 61 Posted: 2019
L Allen , A Gottesman , A Saunders , Y Tang
The role of banks in dividend policy , volume 41 , p. 591 - 613 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
718,946
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies