Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Government Contracts and Financial Reporting Quality

55 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2024

Chris He

Marquette University

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

In recent years, the amount of capital flowing from the government to US firms has significantly increased. Despite the economic importance of the corporate-government contracting relationship, there is limited knowledge about the firm-level financial outcomes associated with government contracts. Federal government regulations mandate that federal contractors maintain strong internal controls over financial reporting and government contractors have strong incentives to maintain their government contracts. Therefore, we expect that corporate-government contractors exhibit higher financial reporting quality. Our study finds that corporate-government contracting relationships are associated with higher firm-level financial reporting quality than non-government contractors. We also observe that financial reporting quality improves when a firm becomes a federal contractor, and greater amounts of government contract revenue are linked to higher levels of financial reporting quality. Our empirical results suggest that having the government as a customer has a positive impact on the quality of financial reports.

Keywords: public procurement, government contractors, financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

He, Zhijian and Kohlbeck, Mark J., Federal Government Contracts and Financial Reporting Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4725660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4725660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , W Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Akram Khalilov , Tobias Witter
Bridging the gap: A study of government suppliers' reporting practices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 53 , p. 107353 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
169,080
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies