Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers of Distressed Firms Use Integrated Reporting as an Impression Management Tool? Some Australian Capital Market Evidence

15 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2024

Anthony C. Ng

The University of Melbourne, Faculty of Business and Economics, Department of Economics; Sunway University

Dr Ferdinand Gul

University of the Sunshine Coast

Abstract

This study investigates whether managers of financially distressed firms voluntarily use Integrated Reporting (IR) as an impression management (IM) tool. Our main tests examine the relationship between IR conformity and (1) firm values and (2) liquidity for firms with different financial health. We find that only for financially distressed firms, there is a non-linear relationship between IR and (1) firm value and (2) liquidity; the relationship for firm value (bid-ask spread) is positive (negative) at low levels of conformity but at progressively higher levels, the relationship becomes negative (positive). Test results on IR and earnings management proxies corroborate these results.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Integrated Reporting, Firm Value, Liquidity, Impression Management, Obfuscation, Financial Distress

Suggested Citation:

Ng, Anthony C. and Gul, Dr Ferdinand, Do Managers of Distressed Firms Use Integrated Reporting as an Impression Management Tool? Some Australian Capital Market Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4726313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4726313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
D Baboukardos , G Rimmel
Value relevance of accounting information under an integrated reporting approach: A research note
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2016
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E R Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
P G Berger , E Ofek , I Swary
Investor valuation of the abandonment option
Journal of financial economics , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 259 - 287 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
724,439
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies