Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Carbon Emissions Affect Corporate Social Responsibility

28 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2024

Xinyang Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Li Ping

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC)

Kai Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zewei Rao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Using the datasets of Chinese A-share listed firms from 2010 to 2020, this study empirically explores the impact of carbon emissions on corporate social responsibility. We find that carbon emissions have a negative effect on the firm' s CSR. Our conclusion is highly robust after using the instrumental variable and the DID test to alleviate the issue of endogeneity and a series of robustness tests. Further analysis suggests that firm financial distress, financing constraints, and tax avoidance are three plausible mechanisms. Our findings offer enterprises an emission alert and provide a new perspective to enhance their CSR performance.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Carbon emissions, Sustainable Development, Paris agreement

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Xinyang and Ping, Li and Wang, Kai and Rao, Zewei, Do Carbon Emissions Affect Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4726342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4726342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2018
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankrup tcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
M Arouri , M Gomes , K Pukthuanthong
Corporate social responsibility and M&A u ncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 176 - 198 Posted: 2019
K Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , C C Y Kwok , Y Zheng
Does corporate socia l responsibility reduce the costs of high leverage? Evidence from capital structure and product mar ket interactions
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 100 , p. 135 - 150 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
618,599
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies