Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Emissions to ESG: The Role of Carbon Trading in Corporate Sustainability

16 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024

Jun Hu

Jinan University - Management School

Qiao Wu

Hainan University

Liya Hou

St. Cloud State University

Troy Yao

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Abstract

This study examines the potential of carbon emission trading scheme (CETS) on corporate sustainability. Utilizing China’s introduction of CETS as a quasi-natural experiment, we find a significant enhancement in corporate ESG performance, although no spillover effects are observed at the regional and industrial levels. The CETS is particularly effective for firms using the Benchmark Method for initial emission quotas, those paying fees for quotas, and those with lower cost-shifting ability. Channel tests confirm that the mechanism reduces managerial myopia and alleviates external financing constraints, contributing to an improved corporate ESG performance. Our findings carry policy implications for regulators and practitioners.

Keywords: Carbon emission trading, Corporate sustainability, ESG, Spillover effects

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jun and Wu, Qiao and Hou, Liya and Yao, Troy, From Emissions to ESG: The Role of Carbon Trading in Corporate Sustainability. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4726335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4726335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M S Alam , M Atif , C Chien-Chi , U Soytaş
Does corporate R&D investment affect firm environmental performance? Evidence from G6 countries
Energy Economics , issue 78 , p. 401 - 411 Posted: 2019
F Brochet , M Loumioti , G Serafeim
Speaking of the short-term: Disclosure horizon and managerial myopia
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1122 - 1163 Posted: 2015
Z Chen , X Zhang , F Chen
Do carbon emission trading schemes stimulate green innovation in enterprises? Evidence from China
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 168 Posted: 2021
D M Christensen , G Serafeim , A Sikochi
Why is corporate virtue in the eye of the beholder? The case of ESG ratings
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 175 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
611
RANK
549,043
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies