Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Small Businesses Survive Chapter 11? 

73 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2024 Last revised: 14 Jul 2025

Edith S. Hotchkiss

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Benjamin Charles Iverson

Brigham Young University

Xiang Zheng

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

Date Written: July 14, 2025

Abstract

A majority of small U.S. businesses attempting to reorganize in bankruptcy fail to successfully do so. Subchapter V of Chapter 11 was introduced in 2020 for firms with less than $7.5 million in liabilities to streamline the process by reducing bankruptcy costs and negotiation frictions, and enabling entrepreneurs to retain their ownership. Employing regression-discontinuity and difference-in-differences designs, we show that many small businesses reorganize under the new procedures that otherwise would have been liquidated. Further, expected creditor recoveries and post-bankruptcy survival rates are at least as high in Subchapter V as in similar traditional small business reorganizations. Our results show that the increased ability to preserve small businesses is not associated with a bias toward continuing unviable firms, and that creditors are not harmed by a shift in bargaining power toward small business owners. 

Keywords: bankruptcy, restructuring, small businesses, financial distress

JEL Classification: G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hotchkiss, Edith S. and Iverson, Benjamin Charles and Zheng, Xiang, Can Small Businesses Survive Chapter 11?  (July 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4726391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4726391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
E I Altman , E Hotchkiss , W Wang
Corporate financial distress, restructuring, and bankruptcy: analyze leveraged finance, distressed debt, and bankruptcy Posted: 2019
S Antill
Do the right firms survive bankruptcy?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 523 - 546 Posted: 2022
S Antill
Are bankruptcy professional fees excessively high
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 3595 - 3647 Posted: 2024
K M Ayotte , E R Morrison
Creditor control and conflict in Chapter 11
Journal of Legal Analysis , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 511 - 551 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
RANK
187,924
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies