Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unlocking Strategic Alliances: The Role of Common Institutional Blockholders in Promoting Collaboration and Trust

55 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2024

Thomas J. Chemmanur

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Yao Shen

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance; City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

There are 4 versions of this paper

Abstract

Our study investigates the role of common institutional blockholders (CIB) in promoting strategic alliances and facilitating the transfer of human capital between alliance partner firms. We find that firms are more likely to form strategic alliances (including R&D, licensing, manufacturing, and marketing alliances) when they share CIBs with a larger proportion of their industry peers. To establish a causal relationship, we exploit the exogenous shocks to CIB ownership induced by annual Russell 1000/2000 index reconstitutions. Our firm-pair level analysis indicates that two firms have a higher chance of forming alliances when they share a CIB. Additionally, we show that R&D alliance partner firms connected through CIBs exhibit a greater across-partner redeployment of R&D-related human capital than partner firms without CIB connections. Overall, our findings underscore the significance of common institutional blockholder ownership in reducing the distrust that hinders the establishment of strategic alliances and in reaping the economic benefits resulting from such alliances.

Keywords: Common Institutional Blockholders, Strategic Alliances, Corporate Innovation

Suggested Citation:

Chemmanur, Thomas J. and Shen, Yao and Xie, Jing, Unlocking Strategic Alliances: The Role of Common Institutional Blockholders in Promoting Collaboration and Trust. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4727038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4727038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 Posted: 2023
I R Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2015
N Attig , S Cleary , S Ghoul , O Guedhami
Institutional investment horizon and investment-cash flow sensitivity
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1164 - 1180 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
474
RANK
317,057
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies