Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Across Borders: A Comparative Study of Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance in Germany and Nigeria
Scientific African

26 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2024 Publication Status: Preprint

Olufunke Mercy Popoola

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Maryam Mansuri

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Daniel Molnar

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Mahmoud Manafi

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Noah Mutai

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Valdrin Dervishaj

Berlin School of Business and Innovation

Abstract

The relation between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporate financial performance (FP) is a vital issue among the investors, the firm, and the firm's management. This research aims to compare the impact of corporate social responsibility on firm’s financial performance in Germany and Nigeria from 2013 to 2022. The data are obtained from the annual reports of companies listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, as well as the corporate social responsibility reports of each respective company. The research employs a Generalized Method of Moment to analyze the data. The main findings from this study shows that the selected companies in Nigeria harness greater return from the use of their assets than the selected companies in Germany, on average. The average earnings per share of the selected companies in Germany is greater than in Nigeria. Corporate social responsibility expenditure in Nigeria positively influences earnings per share and return on assets. On the contrary, the impact of corporate social responsibility expenditure on return on assets is positive within the context of Germany. From these findings, we recommend that more corporate social responsibility expenditure should be embarked on to boost the performance of their assets and improve market valuation in Germany and Nigeria.

Keywords: Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Financial Performance. Cross-Border Comparison, Global Business Practices

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Olufunke Mercy and Mansuri, Maryam and Molnar, Daniel and Manafi, Mahmoud and Mutai, Noah and Dervishaj, Valdrin, Sustainability Across Borders: A Comparative Study of Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance in Germany and Nigeria. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4727116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4727116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
L Allen
Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance in the Consumer and Nonconsumer Sectors Posted: 2014
K Amaeshi , Adi , Abc , Amao , C Oo & Ogbechie
Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria: Western Mimicry or Indigenous Influences?
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 24 , p. 83 - 99 Posted: 2006
Y A Asfaw , A H Gebreegziabher , H K Aregawi
Examining the Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Financial Performance of Manufacturing Companies in Tigray Regional State
Ethiopia. Ethiopian Journal of Business and Economics (The) , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 214 - 249 Posted: 2015
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
584
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Scientific African First Look
All Journals (437)
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies