Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship Code and Shareholder Voting

58 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2024

Sunmin Kim

KOREA INSTITUTE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY

Bonha Koo

Chungnam National University

Hyoung Goo Kang

Hanyang University

Abstract

This study analyzes the influence of dissenting votes by institutional investors on firm value, distinguishing between signatories and non-signatories of the Korea Stewardship Code (KSC). Using event study and switching regression methods, we find that the dissenting votes by KSC signatories lead to a significant decrease in the value of the target firm within three trading days, while votes by non-signatories have no significant effect. We also examine the subtle effects of dissent on different resolutions. The market reacts positively when KSC signatories oppose charter amendments, reflecting a preference for protecting shareholder value. However, the market reacts negatively when KSC signatories oppose the appointment of outside directors, reflecting concerns about the independence of candidates and oversight of management. These findings underscore the need for an understanding of the complex interactions in institutional investor behavior in the context of stewardship codes and corporate governance regulations. The research also has practical implications for market participants, corporate managers, and policy makers navigating the complexities of corporate governance.

Keywords: stewardship code, shareholder voting, corporate governance, self-selection bias, switching regression

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sunmin and Koo, Bonha and Kang, Hyoung Goo, Stewardship Code and Shareholder Voting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4728322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4728322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J E Bethel , S L Gillan
The impact of the institutional and regulatory environment on shareholder voting
Financial Management , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 2002
P Bolton , T Li , E Ravina , H Rosenthal
Investor ideology
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 137 , issue 2 , p. 320 - 352 Posted: 2020
S J Brown , J B Warner
Using daily stock returns: The case of event studies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 1985
S Bushway , B D Johnson , L A Slocum
Is the magic still there? The use of the Heckman two-step correction for selection bias in criminology
Journal of quantitative criminology , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 178 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
RANK
759,678
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies