Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Stock Option Incentives Cause Myopia in Investment Choices? Evidence from China

36 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024

Peiyuan Zhu

Kyoto University

Abstract

Previous empirical studies often ignored the effect of executive options’ vesting periods and exercise windows. In these studies, options exercised in different years are usually treated as the same kind of incentive and are added up to figure out a total measure of option holders’ wealth. However, the myopia theory suggests that this treatment is problematic since executive options are usually non-tradable and holders must wait for vesting. Due to the non-tradable nature of executive options, short-term options may encourage investment activities that are beneficial in the short term but harmful in the long term, while long-term options may not encourage these activities. To verify this mechanism, this study investigates the direct link between Chinese option incentives and different types of investment activities. It discovers that short-term options promote mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activities while discouraging large direct investments, while these effects can't be found for long-term options. These results provide strong evidence for the existence of managerial myopia.

Keywords: Equity Incentives, Stock Options, Corporate Governance, Merge and Acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Peiyuan, Do Stock Option Incentives Cause Myopia in Investment Choices? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4728323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4728323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Aboody , C S Vashishtha , R
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Myopic Investment and Short-Termist Behaviour in Speculative Markets , volume 22 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 1996
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
P D Azar , A W Lo
The wisdom of Twitter crowds: Predicting stock market reactions to FOMC meetings via Twitter feeds
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 123 - 134 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
RANK
791,953
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies