Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Independent Director Interlocks on Chinese Firms Financial Performance: Mediating Role of Green Technology Innovation

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 0 [10.1002/csr.2935]

36 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024

Jalal Khan

Southwest Jiaotong University

Fengyun Wu

Southwest Jiaotong University

Arshad Fawad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ruin Fatimah

Southwest Jiaotong University

Abstract

Using social network theory and resource dependence theory, this study undercovers whether independent directors' interlocks contribute directly to the financial performance of Chinese firms or indirectly through green technology innovation. Furthermore, we scrutinize how the environmental protection management system affects the path between independent directors' interlocks and green technology innovation. Using a sample of 4902 listed firms in China over the period of 2010-2022, the results indicate that firms possess interlocks through their independent directors play a crucial role in fostering performance and developing low-carbon technologies. With an environmental protection management system, the impact of the independent directors' interlocks on corporate green technology innovation is stronger. This study has substantial implications for executives struggling to improve firm performance through green technology innovation, as well as for policymakers seeking to achieve carbon dioxide reduction goals.

Keywords: interlocks, environmental protection management system, resource dependence theory, low-carbon technologies, corporate financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Jalal and Wu, Fengyun and Fawad, Arshad and Fatimah, Ruin, The Impact of Independent Director Interlocks on Chinese Firms Financial Performance: Mediating Role of Green Technology Innovation. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 0 [10.1002/csr.2935], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4729368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4729368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
G Ahuja
Collaboration networks, structural holes, and innovation: A longitudinal study
Administrative science quarterly , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 455 Posted: 2000
M Anwar , Ali Shah , S Z
Managerial networking and business model innovation: Empirical study of new ventures in an emerging economy
Journal of Small Business & Entrepreneurship , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 286 Posted: 2020
S Arunachalam , S C Bahadir , S G Bharadwaj , R Guesalaga
New product introductions for low-income consumers in emerging markets
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 48 , p. 914 - 940 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
RANK
914,805
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Environmental Law, Policy & Governance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies