Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of Corporate Sustainability Disclosure-2023

25 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2024

Magali A. Delmas

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Anderson School of Management, Students; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA); UCLA

Kelly Clark

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Jiaxin Li

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Tyson Timmer

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: February 16, 2024

Abstract

In this report, we examine sustainability reporting among S&P 500 firms, leveraging data from the UCLA Open for Good initiative. We assess 16 sustainability metrics within Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) dimensions, finding an overall low disclosure rate of 55%. Environmental metrics, such as greenhouse gas emissions and climate strategy, show the lowest average rate at 52%. In contrast, Social metrics, focusing on workforce diversity, have a higher average of 58%, with Governance metrics at 55%. While our analysis reveals robust reporting for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, exceeding 80%, we find a significant decrease for Scope 3 emissions at 56%. With new California legislation mandating carbon emissions and climate risk disclosures, these low disclosure rates indicate a challenging path ahead for corporations operating in California. Our findings on workplace and board diversity also suggest limited public reporting despite regular data collection for federal mandates. On average, women constitute only 39% of employees in S&P 500 firms, with their representation at the board of directors' level being even lower, at an average of 32%. Additionally, we highlight that the average CEO compensation is 305 times greater than that of the median employee, and advocate for broader C-suite disclosure for more accurate yearly comparisons. Overall, our analysis emphasizes the urgent need for better ESG disclosure to meet sustainability challenges.

Keywords: Corporate Disclosure, Sustainability Metrics, ESG, Climate Change, Diversity, CEO compensation

JEL Classification: M14, Q, Q4, Q54, Q24, Q25

Suggested Citation:

Delmas, Magali A. and Delmas, Magali A. and Clark, Kelly and Li, Jiaxin and Timmer, Tyson, The State of Corporate Sustainability Disclosure-2023 (February 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4729321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4729321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
B
List of Companies Phillips 66 Posted: 2020
The Home Depot
The Kroger , Co
Posted: 2020
Amerisourcebergen Corp
Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,427
RANK
275,154
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies