Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Social and Environmental Disclosure: Bibliometric Review and Content Analysis

38 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024

Nejla Ould Daoud Ellili

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: February 18, 2024

Abstract

This study analyzes the current trends in corporate governance and social and environmental disclosure using content analysis and a bibliometric review of papers published in the Scopus database. Bibliometric analysis is a quantitative and qualitative method used to highlight the academic contributions of different researchers. This study includes trend, keyword cartography, evolution, citation, and qualitative content analyses. It reviewed 194 documents on the association between corporate governance and social and environmental disclosure. Bibliometric analysis was conducted using VOSviewer, whereas evolution and content analyses were performed using CiteSpace and WordStat. The results identified five major clusters: (1) board of directors, (2) corporate governance theories, (3) content analysis, (4) ownership structure, and (5) sustainability. Moreover, the results reveal that the Journal of Business Ethics is the most cited journal publishing papers on the association between corporate governance and social and environmental disclosure. This reflects an important contribution to this research topic. This study provides recommendations for future research. The results of this study have important implications for future studies on the association between corporate governance and non-financial disclosure. This study is the only one to review documents on the association between corporate governance and social and environmental disclosure. This study presents an overview of the literature development over time, as well as a summary of the most cited authors, documents, countries, organizations, journal sources, and reference papers. This study offers several opportunities for future research in this field.

Keywords: Bibliometric analysis, corporate governance, social and environmental disclosure, VOSviewer, CiteSpace, content analysis, WordStat

JEL Classification: G34, G39, O16

Suggested Citation:

Ellili, Nejla Ould Daoud, Impact of Corporate Governance on Social and Environmental Disclosure: Bibliometric Review and Content Analysis (February 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4730813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
175 References
A O Abang'a , V Tauringana , D Wang'ombe , L O Achiro
Corporate governance and financial performance of state-owned enterprises in Kenya
Corporate Governance , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 798 - 820 Posted: 2022
Y Abdullah , N A Ahmad-Zaluki , N A Rahim
Determinants of CSRD in non-Asian and Asian countries: a literature review
Journal of Global Responsibility , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
T Abdoush , K Hussainey , K Albitar
Corporate governance and performance in the UK insurance industry pre, during and post the global financial crisis
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 617 - 640 Posted: 2022
D A Adu
Sustainable banking initiatives, environmental disclosure and financial performance: The moderating impact of corporate governance mechanisms
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 2365 - 2399 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
RANK
441,693
175 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies