Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Less is More: Lender Distraction and Workplace Safety

44 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2024 Last revised: 17 Sep 2025

Yifei Liao

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Liang Ma

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Tonni Xia

San Diego State University

Date Written: February 18, 2024

Abstract

We examine how lender distraction affects workplace safety and find that a decrease in lender attention leads to an increase in workplace safety for borrower firms. To establish causality, we use exogenous shocks to lender attention induced by attention-grabbing events in unrelated industries in lenders’ portfolios. The improving effect of lender distraction on workplace safety is more pronounced for borrowers with lower union memberships. Furthermore, we find that lender distraction improves workplace safety through reducing renegotiation pressure and consequently lowering employee workload. Our results document an unintended yet positive effect of corporate stakeholder distraction.

Keywords: Lender Distraction, Workplace Safety, ESG, Renegotiation Pressure, Employee Workload JEL Classification: G02, G30, J28, K32, M41

JEL Classification: G02, G30, J28, K32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Yifei and Ma, Liang and Xia, Shijun, Less is More: Lender Distraction and Workplace Safety (February 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4730839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Addus
Credit agreement between Addus Acquisition Corporation and Freeport Financial LLC Posted: 2006
M Baker , J Wurgler
Behavioral corporate finance: An updated survey
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 2 , p. 357 - 424 Posted: 2013
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
R Basu , S Pierce , A Stephan
The effect of investor inattention on voluntary disclosure Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
286,433
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies