Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Audit Committee Financial and Industry Expertise on the Readability of Key Audit Matters: New Zealand Evidence

38 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Elizabeth Rainsbury

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fangmiao Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Arfian Zudana

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of the audit committee (AC)'s financial and industry expertise on the readability of Key Audit Matters (KAMs) using empirical evidence from New Zealand. The sample covers 115 New Zealand listed companies in the financial year 2021. Correlation and regression analyses were conducted to examine potential relationships between the AC's financial and industry expertise and the readability of KAMs. The Flesch Reading Ease Formula was used to measure KAMs readability. The results indicate a statistically significant positive association between industry experts on the AC committee and KAM readability. These results are robust using alternative readability measures. The study also finds that the positive relationship between AC industry expertise and readability of KAMs is stronger for firms audited by a BIG4 firm. It is important to note that the overall readability of KAMS is very low. The factors identified as influencing KAMs readability will be of use for regulators and professional accounting bodies to consider as they seek ways to improve the overall readability of KAMs.The research contributes to post-implementation empirical research on the impacts of KAMs, and provides additional evidence regarding the effectiveness of audit committees.

Keywords: Key audit matters, audit committees, industry expertise, financial expertise

Suggested Citation:

Rainsbury, Elizabeth and Chen, Fangmiao and Zudana, Arfian, The Impacts of Audit Committee Financial and Industry Expertise on the Readability of Key Audit Matters: New Zealand Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4730420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
RANK
334,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies