Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negative Interest Rates and Corporate Tax Behavior in Banks

51 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Michael Marin

University of Toronto at Mississauga - Department of Management

Yuchen Wu

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU); TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Using a sample of OECD domestic banks and a difference-in-difference research design, we examine the impact of negative interest rate (NIR) regimes on corporate tax behavior. We document that the introduction of NIRs is associated with a 2.3 to 2.6 percentage point decrease in effective tax rates. The effect of NIRs is more pronounced in banks with lower distance to default, and in countries with lower tax enforcement or lower trust in the government. Collectively, our results suggest that the increased costs associated with NIRs are borne by commercial banks which lead to an increase in their respective tax planning.

Keywords: tax planning, negative interest rates, financial institutions

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S. and Marin, Michael and Wu, Yuchen, Negative Interest Rates and Corporate Tax Behavior in Banks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4730423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
U Albertazzi , L Gambacorta
Bank Profitability and Taxation
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , p. 2801 - 2810 Posted: 2010
K Andries , J Gallemore , M Jacob
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
460
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies