Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Top Management Team Stability on Internal Control Quality——Based on the Moderating Effect of Equity Incentives

55 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2024

Wei Xiong

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Xu Zhao

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Huan Chen

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Yiduo Guo

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This study examines how the stability of the top management team (TMT) affects the internal control quality of A-share listed companies in China, and takes into account the moderating influence of equity incentives. Our findings suggest that a steady TMT fosters an improved internal control environment and helps to maintain a high-quality of internal control. The stronger of equity incentives for top management, the more pronounced the positive effect of TMT stability on internal control quality. This study's theoretical implications are shown by extending the scope of the internal control field by introducing TMT stability as a new influencing factor.

Keywords: Top Management Team stability, Internal Control Quality, Equity Incentive, Impact Study

Suggested Citation:

Xiong, Wei and Zhao, Xu and Chen, Huan and Guo, Yiduo, The Influence of Top Management Team Stability on Internal Control Quality——Based on the Moderating Effect of Equity Incentives. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4731865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4731865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W R Kinney
The Discovery and Reporting of Internal Control Deficiencies Prior to SOX-mandated Audit
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
J Bai , X S Tang , Y X Zheng
Serving the truth: Do directors with media background improve financial reporting quality?
International Review of Financial Analysis Posted: 2023
S Balsaman , S Miharjoa
The effect of equity compensation on voluntary executive turnover
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2007
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Social Science Electronic Publishing , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
378
RANK
819,493
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies