Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing creditor decision-making in South African business rescue proceedings: a comprehensive analysis of information requirements in business rescue plans

International Journal of Law and Management

23 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2024

Mamekwa Katlego Kekana

University of Johannesburg

Nicole Varela Aguiar De Abreu

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: February 19, 2024

Abstract

Abstract
Purpose – Business rescue, as a mechanism to aid financially distressed companies in South Africa, has received considerable academic and practical recognition. However, the business rescue plan is an overlooked and, perhaps, underdeveloped aspect of the regime. For stakeholders, this is the ultimate decision-making document. Creditors are the most influential stakeholders in business rescue proceedings owing to their voting rights. For creditors to make informed decisions and exercise their votes meaningfully, the business rescue plan should be transparent and adequately disclose relevant and reliable information. This study aims to identify creditors’ primary information needs to enhance the sufficiency and decision-usefulness of business rescue plans, not only to entice the vote of creditors but to enforce accountability from practitioners.
Design/methodology/approach – Using a qualitative research design, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 14 executives from 10 South African financial institutions.
Findings – The findings reveal that comprehensive disclosure of financial, commercial and legal
information in business rescue plans was a critical antecedent for stakeholder decision-making.
Additionally, leadership and social impact information were influential determinants. This study
advances academic knowledge and, for practitioners, adds value to the development of business
rescue plans. This can enhance creditors’ confidence in supporting the rescue effort and approving the plan.
Practical implications – This study advances academic knowledge and, for practitioners, adds value to the development of business rescue plans. This can enhance creditors’ confidence in supporting the rescue effort and approving the plan.
Originality/value – The originality of this article lies in its investigation of how creditors assess the
information in BR plans as a precursor to supporting the company’s reorganisation in a creditor friendly business rescue system such as South Africa. This study provides novel insights into the decision-making process, particularly how creditors assess BR plans, address information asymmetry and vote on the plan.

Keywords: Business rescue, Business rescue plans, Business rescue practitioner, Creditors, Decision-making, Disclosure, Information, Reorganisation, South Africa

JEL Classification: G33, G34, G38, D81, D82

Suggested Citation:

Kekana, Mamekwa Katlego and De Abreu, Nicole Varela Aguiar, Enhancing creditor decision-making in South African business rescue proceedings: a comprehensive analysis of information requirements in business rescue plans (February 19, 2024). International Journal of Law and Management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4731015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
F T Asah , L Louw , J Williams
The availability of credit from the formal financial sector to small and medium enterprises in South Africa
Journal of Economic and Financial Sciences , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2020
V Braun , V Clarke , H M Cooper , American Psychological Association
Thematic analysis
APA Handbook of Research Methods in Psychology , p. 57 - 71 Posted: 2012
V S J Buccola
Sponsor control: a paradigm for corporate reorganization
The University of Chicago Law Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 47 Posted: 2023
J Cepec , P Grajzl
Creditors, plan confirmations, and bankruptcy reorganisations: Lessons from Slovenia , volume 22 , p. 559 - 589 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
856,579
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies