Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Championing EDI and ESG While Using Child Labour: The Hershey Paradox (Peer-reviewed teaching case and teaching note, published on Feb 12, 2024).

Championing EDI and ESG While Using Child Labour: The Hershey Paradox https://www.iveypublishing.ca/s/product/championing-edi-and-esg-while-using-child-labour-the-hershey-paradox/01tOF000002ixeLYAQ

Fox School of Business Research Paper

Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Bertrand Guillotin

Temple University (Fox) - Strategic Mgmt Dept.

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

As she prepared for the Hershey Company Investor Day, CEO Michele Buck knew the importance of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI); the importance of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices; and that EDI within corporate social responsibility (CSR) was key to Hershey’s valuable brand image, engaged employees, and effective business relationships. “Children’s wellbeing is at the heart of who we are as a company. This goes back to our founder, Milton S. Hershey, who cared deeply about children.” However, the company depended on cocoa beans from West Africa and had not yet honoured a 2001 industry-wide pledge to uproot child labour in global supply chains. Hershey was committed to improved practices but had not yet reached its goals. What if Hershey’s largest customer in its largest market decided to drop Hershey products? What if socially conscious institutional investors decided to sell their shares? How could the CEO avoid these disastrous scenarios and reassure both customers and investors?

Keywords: Environmental;Social;Governance; Gender Equality; Reduced Inequalities; Responsible Consumption and Production

JEL Classification: O, M, K

Suggested Citation:

Guillotin, Bertrand, Championing EDI and ESG While Using Child Labour: The Hershey Paradox (Peer-reviewed teaching case and teaching note, published on Feb 12, 2024). (February 12, 2024). Championing EDI and ESG While Using Child Labour: The Hershey Paradox https://www.iveypublishing.ca/s/product/championing-edi-and-esg-while-using-child-labour-the-hershey-paradox/01tOF000002ixeLYAQ, Fox School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4731148
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies