Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Integrity

60 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2024

Zhaoyang Gu

Chinese University of Hong Kong - School of Accountancy

Rubin Hao

University of Macau

Chunqiu Zhang

Fudan University

Jing Xue

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Date Written: June 11, 2024

Abstract

This study empirically examines the implication of analysts' integrity on their research outputs and career success. Using analysts' off-the-job behavior, specifically their legal records, to proxy for personal attributes of low self-control and a high disregard for ethical norms, i.e., weak integrity, we predict and find that weak-integrity analysts engage more in opportunistic behaviors, including "speaking in two tongues" and EPS forecast walk-down. Despite demonstrating higher forecast accuracy, weak-integrity analysts experience less favorable career outcomes, i.e., they are less likely to be voted as star, employed by high-status brokers and the buy side, or promoted internally. In summary, our study provides large-sample empirical evidence underscoring the pivotal role of analysts' integrity as a decisive determinant of their information outputs and career success.

Keywords: Analyst integrity, opportunism, career consequence, legal record JEL Classification: G24, G41, J62

JEL Classification: G24, G41, J62

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Zhaoyang and Hao, Rubin and Zhang, Chunqiu and Xue, Jing, Analyst Integrity (June 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4732571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4732571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? -The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
A Agan , J L Doleac , A Harvey
Misdemeanor Prosecution
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 1453 - 1505 Posted: 2023
R L Akers
Self-control as a general theory of crime
Journal of Quantitative Criminology , volume 7 , p. 201 - 211 Posted: 1991
Y Algan , P Cahuc
Trust and Growth. Annual Review of Economics , volume 5 , p. 521 - 549 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
RANK
299,785
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies