Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Personal Finance to Corporate Finance: How CEOs' Personal Financial Risk Appetite Affects that of Their Firms

45 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Hamid Boustanifar

EDHEC Business School

Edward J. Zajac

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Business

Dan Zhang

Oslo Business School

Date Written: February 20, 2024

Abstract

While management scholars have long presumed that a CEO’s personal preferences (as revealed in their personal choices) will influence key firm-level decisions in the direction of cross-situational consistency, we suggest that this relationship is likely more complex and merits closer examination. Focusing on one domain of CEO preferences (i.e., financial risk appetite), we first advance and test the usual cross-situational consistency prediction, in which a CEO will seek – whether consciously or unconsciously - to have his/her personal financial risk appetite (as revealed in his/her personal financial investment decisions) be mirrored in his/her firm’s financial risk appetite (as revealed by the firm’s corporate finance decisions). However, we also introduce a salience-based argument that suggests that plausibly exogenous changes of a CEO’s personal investment portfolio will trigger – whether consciously or unconsciously -- changes in a CEO’s financial risk appetite, resulting in a negative reversion effect on his/her firm’s financial choices. To address more closely the presumed mechanism underlying our prior predictions (i.e., that of a CEO with sufficient influence to realize his/her preferences), we also consider an important moderating relationship in that we predict and find our results to be particularly strong when the CEO’s power allows his/her to align more closely the firm’s financial risk appetite with his/her own. We also address a variety of potential selection issues and conclude by noting the implications of our framework and our findings for future research seeking to link CEO (i.e., individual-level) preferences with key firm-level decisions.

Keywords: CEO risk appetite, corporate financial decisions, cross-situational consistency, salience, risk homeostasis 

Suggested Citation:

Boustanifar, Hamid and Zajac, Edward J. and Zhang, Dan, From Personal Finance to Corporate Finance: How CEOs' Personal Financial Risk Appetite Affects that of Their Firms (February 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4732729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4732729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
682,509
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies