Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Regulating Greenwashing

54 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Shiyao Peng

University of Sydney Business School

Zhiyuan (Simon) Tan

The University of Sydney Business School

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: August 09, 2024

Abstract

Greenwashing as a contentious topic has recently triggered enforcement actions by market regulators worldwide. Using primarily public textual materials, supplemented by five interviews, and insights from the sociology of regulation, the paper demonstrates four interrelated aspects of how greenwashing is regulated. First, regulators define greenwashing as misleading and deceptive claims that erode trust, deeming it appropriate for regulatory intervention. Second, despite unique challenges, regulators align actions with existing regulatory frameworks and deploy various measures typically used for other issues to target greenwashing cases. This process shapes the concept of greenwashing, both narrowing and broadening its scope in varying ways. Finally, despite stakeholder support and evidence of enhanced transparency following sanctions, regulatory interventions against greenwashing have limitations and unintended consequences, demanding further regulatory responses. This paper contributes to recent accounting research, which highlights the limitations of mandatory sustainability reporting and assurance in tackling greenwashing, by examining the role of market regulators.

Keywords: Greenwashing, Regulatory intervention, Sanctions, Sociology of regulation

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Shiyao and Tan, Simon and Zhou, Shan,

Regulating Greenwashing

(August 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4733765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
121,386
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies