Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Board of Directors and (Non)-Executives’ Ownership Mitigate Interest Payment Classification Shifting? UK Evidence

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming. (Accepted 19th February 2024).

36 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Mohamed Hessian

Ain Shams University - Faculty of Business

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: February 20, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether the board of directors and stock ownership by outside directors and executives may limit interest payment classification shifting within the statement of cash flows. We find that the interest payment classification shifting is less prevalent in UK firms with high-quality internal governance, demonstrating that effective internal governance may serve as a substitute for rules-based accounting standards. While we find governance mechanisms play a crucial role in mitigating such practice in both distressed and non-distressed firms, our finding is more pronounced in non-distressed firms. We also find that there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between the board independence, managerial and independent directors’ stock ownership, and the classification shifting of interest payment; indeed, it is premature to propose that independent and stock ownership can serve as an effective mechanism in mitigating managerial opportunism in all cases, and indeed, there should be optimal independent director and ownership thresholds before which caution would be required to ensure that managers remain focused on maximizing shareholder value.

Keywords: Corporate governance, cash flow manipulation, classification shifting, interest payments, board independence, managerial ownership, non-executive ownership.

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hessian, Mohamed and Zalata, Alaa and Hussainey, Khaled, Does the Board of Directors and (Non)-Executives’ Ownership Mitigate Interest Payment Classification Shifting? UK Evidence (February 20, 2024). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming. (Accepted 19th February 2024)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , E T Rapley
Earnings management constraints and classification shifting
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 41 , issue 5-6 , p. 600 - 626 Posted: 2014
I Alexeyeva
Does board composition impact the timeliness of financial reporting? evidence from swedish privately held companies
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 54 Posted: 2024
E Alfonso , C S A Cheng , S Pan
Income classification shifting and mispricing of core earnings
Auditing & Finance, 0148558X15571738 Posted: 2015
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
RANK
609,870
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies