Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Cliques and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from China

46 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2024

Lu Deng

Beihang University (BUAA)

Fan Feng

Beihang University

Jiaxu Peng

Central University of Finance and Economics - Department of Accounting Informatization System

Zhuoxiu Xia

Beihang University (BUAA)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study analyzes the network structures of institutional shareholders and examines the influence of institutional investor cliques on corporate innovation. Our empirical results reveal that institutional investor cliques significantly enhance both innovation input and output. To mitigate endogeneity concerns and establish causality, we adopt multiple empirical strategies. Further evidence suggests that the beneficial impact of institutional investor cliques on firm innovation can be attributed to increased innovation investment efficiency, enhanced employee productivity, reduced information asymmetry, and decreased managerial myopia. Additionally, we find that the positive effect of institutional investor cliques on firm innovation is more pronounced in non-state-owned enterprises and is particularly evident in firms with severe agency conflicts, CEO duality issues, highly competitive product markets, and for firms that have low stock liquidity.

Keywords: Institutional investor cliques, corporate innovation, patenting, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Lu and Feng, Fan and Peng, Jiaxu and Xia, Zhuoxiu, Institutional Investor Cliques and Corporate Innovation: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4733671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
T Artiga González , P Calluzzo
Clustered shareholder activism
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 27 , p. 210 - 225 Posted: 2019
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
560,264
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies