Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover of Bad Publicity Effect of Negative ESG Coverage in Supply Chains on Firm Performance

35 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2024

Li Wang

Tianjin University

Yuxiao Ye

Tianjin University - College of Management and Economics

Baofeng Huo

Tianjin University

Abstract

In an increasingly open and transparent information environment, negative media coverage of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues would detriment focal firms’ legitimacy and performance. However, we have a limited understanding of whether negative media coverage of supply chain partners would spill over to focal firms. Using a panel dataset from Chinese listed firms, we examine the research question at a dyadic (i.e., focal firm and supplier or customer) level. This study reveals that negative media coverage about supply chain partners’ ESG issues can cause a spillover effect, negatively impacting the focal firms’ financial performance. Notably, the extent of this impact is contingent on the reach of the media sources and the severity of the coverage. We also show that focal firms are more impacted by supply chain partners with stronger relationships and greater market power. Our findings underscore the importance of actively managing partners’ ESG issues to avoid potential financial losses within a multi-tier supply chain. This study has fruitful contributions to the literature on supply chain sustainability and the spillover effect in dyadic relationships.

Keywords: Media coverage, spillover effect, ESG, Supply chain sustainability, Supply chain relationships

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Li and Ye, Yuxiao and Huo, Baofeng, Spillover of Bad Publicity Effect of Negative ESG Coverage in Supply Chains on Firm Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4733311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Ahluwalia , H R Unnava , R E Burnkrant
The moderating role of commitment on the spillover effect of marketing communications
Journal of Marketing research , volume 384 , p. 458 - 470 Posted: 2001
M U Ahmed , A Shafiq
Toward sustainable supply chains: impact of buyer's legitimacy, power and aligned focus on supplier sustainability performance
International Journal of Operations & Production Management , volume 423 , p. 280 - 303 Posted: 2022
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG controversies matter for firm value? Evidence from international data
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
334,632
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies