Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political connections of executives and directors: relevant facts to understand the impact of politicians on firm valuation

38 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Andrés F. Mejía-Amaya

Tecnológico de Monterrey

Carlos Pombo

Universidad de los Andes, Colombia - School of Management

Date Written: February 21, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of political connections on firm valuation across large, listed corporations in emerging markets in the Americas. The study analyzes the impact of a higher number of politically connected individuals, their role as officers or directors, and the impact of tenure on firm market value. Our estimations show the positive impact of being a politically connected firm. Moreover, the positive impact of politically connected directors is different from the nonsignificant effect of politically connected officers. The intensity of politically connected directors positively impacts firm valuation. There is a moderating role of tenure, that implies the positive initial impact of politically connected directors on firm Tobin’s Q decreases over time.

Keywords: Political connections, Latin America, politically connected directors, politically connected officers, firm value, directors’ tenure, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Mejía-Amaya, Andrés Fernando and Pombo, Carlos, Political connections of executives and directors: relevant facts to understand the impact of politicians on firm valuation (February 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4734423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4734423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
I D Apriliyanti , T Randøy
Between politics and business: Boardroom decision making in stateowned Indonesian enterprises
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 166 - 185 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
I D Apriliyanti , T Randøy
Between politics and business: Boardroom decision making in stateowned Indonesian enterprises
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 166 - 185 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies