Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture Homogeneity and Top Executive Incentive Design: Evidence from CEO Compensation Contracts

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 24-054

58 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Dennis Campbell

Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Ruidi Shang

Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Zhifang Zhang

Warwick Business School

Date Written: February 14, 2024

Abstract

We examine how corporate cultures characterized by high degrees of homogeneity in the underlying values and beliefs of organizational members are related to the design of CEO incentive compensation contracts. We argue that culture homogeneity within firms lowers ex post monitoring costs for boards and shareholders and reduces the need to rely on ex ante incentives for CEOs and other top executives. Drawing on economic theories of corporate culture and using a text-based measure of corporate culture homogeneity, we predict and find that firms with higher degrees of corporate culture homogeneity tend to rely less on CEO equity pay and more on nonfinancial performance metrics conditional on granting equity. We also find that firms with higher degrees of corporate culture homogeneity do not substitute lower equity pay with higher fixed pay or bonuses, yielding both lower CEO variable and total pay. These results also hold for CFOs and other top executives. Our study contributes to the literatures on both corporate culture and CEO compensation by providing the first systematic evidence that corporate culture homogeneity is an important consideration in understanding differences in the design of top executive incentives across firms.

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, Dennis and Shang, Ruidi and Zhang, Zhifang, Corporate Culture Homogeneity and Top Executive Incentive Design: Evidence from CEO Compensation Contracts (February 14, 2024). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 24-054, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4734441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4734441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the Economics of Organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
Amar Bhide , Dennis Campbell , Kristin Stack
Handelsbanken
Harvard Business School Case 116-019 Posted: 2002-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,009
RANK
274,044
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies