Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Stock Value Enhancement: An Investigation of Stakeholder Evaluations

29 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Wei Wu

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Abstract

​While previous research has analyzed the causal relationship between CSR and subsequent financial performance from a strategic perspective, this paper emphasizes from a stakeholder perspective that CSR and financial performance (i.e., stock value enhancement) jointly influence stakeholder evaluations. Using a sample of Chinese listed companies from 2011 and 2022, we find a negative joint effect of CSR and stock value enhancement on stakeholder evaluations proxied by analyst recommendations and online stock forum sentiments, indicating that CSR is a substitute for stock value enhancement in stakeholder evaluations. Further, by distinguishing between internal versus external CSR, we find external CSR contributes to the substitution effect more for analysts, and internal CSR contributes more to the substitution effect more for private investors. These findings advance our understanding of the criteria by which stakeholders evaluate multifaced corporate performance and offer implications to stakeholder management in an increasingly complex and dynamic world.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, stock value enhancement, stakeholder evaluation, Analyst Recommendation, online stock forum sentiment

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Wei, Corporate Social Responsibility and Stock Value Enhancement: An Investigation of Stakeholder Evaluations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
H Akono , K Karim , E Nwaeze
Analyst rounding of EPS forecasts and stock recommendations
Advances in Accounting , volume 44 , p. 68 - 80 Posted: 2019
M Al-Shammari , A Rasheed , H A Al-Shammari
CEO narcissism and corporate social responsibility: Does CEO narcissism affect CSR focus
Journal of Business Research , volume 104 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2019
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
R D Banker , G Potter , D Srinivasan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plan that includes nonfinancial performance measures
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
279
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies