Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Incur Financial Restatements? -A Recognition Study Based on Textual Features of Key Audit Matters Reports

35 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Xin Huang

Hunan University of Technology and Business

Hao Huang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Liang Yuan

Hunan University of Technology and Business; Hunan University

Abstract

This article takes China's A-share non-financial listed companies from 2016-2019 as a research sample, and strips three textual features of listed companies' reports on key audit matters through textual analysis to study the identification of the textual features of key audit reports on the probability of the occurrence of corporate financial restatement behaviors. The study found that firms with a worse level of readability of key audit matters, a more negative net tone of key audit matters, and a greater level of detail of key audit matters had a higher probability of financial restatement behavior. investors can infer the probability of a firm's financial restatement behavior by using the above three textual features, and the identification remains reliable and valid after various robustness tests. It is further found that the method of identifying the probability of a firm's financial restatement behavior through the textual features of the report on key audit matters is more significant and effective for firms that have strong external monitoring, high investor sentiment, no negative media reports, and no penalties imposed on the firm and its executives. The findings of this paper not only reflect the importance of disclosure of information on key audit matters reported by listed companies, but also put forward new ideas for investors' equity investment and regulators' regulatory direction. Investors and regulators can infer the probability of a financial restatement of a company through the textual characteristics of the report on key audit matters, and then take appropriate investment and regulatory programs to safeguard investors' rights and interests.

Keywords: Key Audit Matters, Net Tone, readability, text analysis, Financial Restatement

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xin and Huang, Hao and Yuan, Liang, Do Firms Incur Financial Restatements? -A Recognition Study Based on Textual Features of Key Audit Matters Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Baber W R , Kumar K R , T Verghese
Client security price reactions to the Laventhol and Horwath bankruptcy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 358 - 395 Posted: 1995
D A Bens , M Cheng , M Neamtiu
The Impact of SEC disclosure monitoring on the uncertainty of fair value estimates
Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 375 Posted: 2016
J L Callen , S Robb , Dan S
Revenue Manipulation and Restatements by Loss Firms
Auditing A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2008
S Cheng , J M Liu , Y Cheng
Complementing or disguising: surplus manipulation and non-financial disclosure in MD&A
Accounting Research , issue 8 , p. 11 - 18 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
499
RANK
601,090
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies