Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Job Ladder Model of Executive Compensation

49 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Bo Hu

Fudan University

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of managerial labour market competition on executive incentive contracts. I develop a dynamic contracting model that features moral hazard, search frictions and poaching offers. The model generates a job ladder along which executives get promoted internally and transition to larger companies. It reveals that poaching offers significantly affect executive compensation, both in terms of the levels and incentive structures. The model is applied in two exercises. First, I show that poaching generates a new source of incentives that explains a newly documented empirical puzzle — the firm-size incentive premium. Second, the estimated model is employed to quantitatively account for the trend of executive compensation over decades.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Managerial Labour Market, Dynamic Moral Hazard, Search Frictions, Firm-size Premium

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Bo, A Job Ladder Model of Executive Compensation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Arpád Abrahám , Fernando Alvarez-Parra , Susanne Forstner
The Effects of Moral Hazard on Wage Inequality in a Frictional Labor Market Posted: 2017
Dilip Abreu , David Pearce , Ennio Stacchetti
Toward a theory of discounted repeated games with imperfect monitoring
Econometrica , p. 1041 - 1063 Posted: 1990
George P Baker , Brian J Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 767 - 798 Posted: 2004
Neele Balke , Thibaut Lamadon
Productivity Shocks, Long-Term Contracts, and Earnings Dynamics
American Economic Review , volume 112 , issue 7 , p. 2139 - 2177 Posted: 2022-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies