Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Responses to Generative AI: Early Evidence from Conference Calls

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2024 Last revised: 12 Jun 2025

Ning Jia

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Guang Ma

Rutgers Business School at Newark and New Brunswick

Da Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: March 12, 2025

Abstract

We provide early evidence of corporate responses to generative artificial intelligence (GAI) through managerial discussions of GAI in conference calls after the release of ChatGPT in November 2022. Following the release, these managerial discussions increase substantially, and most discussions have positive tone and contain action initiatives. The increase is more pronounced for larger firms, growth firms, younger firms, and high-tech industries. The largest increase is observed in the industry of business equipment–computers, software, and electronic equipment, while the utilities, chemicals and allied products, and oil, gas, and coal extraction industries experience the smallest increases. Managers of firms with greater innovation intensity (reflected in patent filings), cybersecurity threats, labor exposure to AI, and customer operations are more likely to increase GAI discussions. The results are primarily driven by positive-tone discussions and those with action initiatives. We find similar results using financial analysts’ GAI discussions in conference calls except for patent filings. Finally, we find that managers’ GAI discussions inform investors. 

Keywords: generative AI, ChatGPT, conference call, innovation, cybersecurity, labor exposure to AI, customer operations, financial analysts, market reaction

JEL Classification: K4, M4

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Ning and Li, Ningzhong and Ma, Guang and Xu, Da, Corporate Responses to Generative AI: Early Evidence from Conference Calls (March 12, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4736295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4736295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 Posted: 2025
J Bai , N M Boyson , Y Cao , L Miao
Executives vs. chatbots: Unmasking insights through human-AI differences in earnings conference Q&A Posted: 2023
Company Bain
Reset and reinvent: The thriving landscape of tech innovation Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Mengming Michael Dong , Theophanis C. Stratopoulos , Victor Xiaoqi Wang
A scoping review of ChatGPT research in accounting and finance
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 55 , p. 100715 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,034
RANK
40,309
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies