Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Liquidity Management on Profitability: A Comparative Analysis between Public Sector and DSE Listed Private Sector Banks in Bangladesh

Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.7 No.1 (2024)

18 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2024

Mithun Chokroborty

Bangladesh Academy for Securities Markets

Al Hasan

Bangladesh Academy for Securities Markets

Date Written: February 24, 2024

Abstract

This study is all about the effect of liquidity management on profitability of public and DSE listed private sector banks and compares the outcomes regarding liquidity management. In this study, is taken 18 banks of Bangladesh in total as sample (9 banks from public sector where 6 banks are state owned and 3 banks are specialized and 9 banks from private sector which are listed in DSE) and also taken five years data from 2013 to 2017 for assessing the impact of liquidity management on profitability. As there is always a trade-off between liquidity and profitability, in this study find out either this trade-off is exiting in the each of banking sector or not and also assess the efficiency of liquidity management of the banks. The liquidity condition of the banking industry of Bangladesh is also highlighted in this study where it is seen that banking industry is facing some problem regarding liquidity from the 2018. The analysis part of the study is assessed the condition of the liquidity management before 2018 and found out the relationship between liquidity and profitability of public sector and private sector banks. To assess the relationship is used some financial ratios like: liquidity management is measured by current ratio, cash-deposit ratio, credit-deposit ratio and investment-deposit ratio and profitability is measured by return on assets and return on equity. By using the descriptive statistics, find out the average, standard deviation, maximum and minimum value of each ratios. The Pearson Correlation is been used to assessed the correlation between each variable with others. The relationship between liquidity and profitability is evaluated through regression model where first consider the return on assets as dependent variable and all liquidity ratios as independent variables. Again here is assessed the relationship by taking return on equity as dependent variable. After developing the model based on regression for public sector and the DSE listed private sector banks individually, the outcomes are compared to find out the effect of liquidity management on profitability and find out the efficiency in liquidity management. It is found that the DSE listed private sector banks are more efficient in liquidity management than public sector banks in Bangladesh. Because the DSE listed private sector banks are managed their liquidity function so well that it is not affecting the profitability of DSE listed private sector banks. On the other hand, the public sector banks need to improve their performance regarding liquidity management so that they can manage liquidity and profitability at the same time and remain competitive with DSE listed private sector banks in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Liquidity Management, Profitability, Public Sector Banks, Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) listed Private Sector Banks, Return on Assets and Return on Equity

Suggested Citation:

Chokroborty, Mithun and Hasan, Al, Effect of Liquidity Management on Profitability: A Comparative Analysis between Public Sector and DSE Listed Private Sector Banks in Bangladesh (February 24, 2024). Economics and Business Quarterly Reviews, Vol.7 No.1 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4737566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Nicola Cetorelli , Linda S Goldberge
Liquidity management of U.S. global banks: Internal capital markets in the great recession
Journal of International Economics , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 299 - 311 Posted: 2012-11
Anjola Oluwatobi Fagboyo , Abayomi Adeniran , Adedeji
The effect of liquidity management on profitability in Indian banking sector-The IUP journal of bank management: IJBM
Impact of Liquidity Management on Profitability in Nigeria's Banking Sector-Conference: ICGET 2018 At: Baze university, Abuja, Nigeria Birajit Mohanty and Shweta Mehrotra , volume 17 , p. 7 - 20 Posted: 2010-12-38
Ali Sulieman , Alshantti
The Effect of the Liquidity Management on Profitability in the Jordanian Commercial Banks
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
Muhammad Shaukat , Mustabsar Awais , Aisha Khursheed
Impact of Liquidity on Profitability: A Comprehensive Case of Pakistan's Private Banking Sector
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
RANK
427,290
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies