Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Misconduct as a Barrier to Family Stock Ownership: Evidence from Misconduct Spillover

Posted: 29 Jul 2024 Last revised: 6 Feb 2025

Yang Cao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Ki-Soon Choi

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Lian Fen Lee

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Alvis K. Lo

Boston College

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

Corporate ESG misconduct, such as pollution and workplace violations, generates public outcry and raises concerns that corporations profit at the expense of society and the environment. We study whether such misconduct affects families’ perception of corporations at large and, hence, their reluctance to invest in the stock market. We confirm that a significant proportion of families in our sample do not own stock. Importantly, the likelihood of family non-stock ownership is higher in states with more frequent local ESG misconduct cases. The results are mainly present when the misconduct can attract more public criticism (e.g., when the misconduct firms are financially strong) or when the families are prosocial. The local environment (e.g., counter-examples set by local firms with good ESG performance) also influences the effect of ESG misconduct. Results are driven by the increased reluctance of non-stock owning families to enter the stock market, rather than by a reduction in ownership among those already holding stocks. Our findings suggest an unexplored spillover effect, where negative ESG performance of misconduct firms acts as an entry barrier to the stock market

Keywords: Corporate ESG misconduct, Family stock ownership, Spillover

JEL Classification: D14, D15, G11, G51

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Yang and Choi, Ki-Soon and Lee, Lian Fen and Lo, Alvis K., ESG Misconduct as a Barrier to Family Stock Ownership: Evidence from Misconduct Spillover (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4739889
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies