Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Baths Around Turnovers: What Happens If the Former CEO Stays on Board?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Mario Daniele

Catholic University of Milan

Prajakta Desai

Università Bocconi

Claudia Imperatore

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether retaining the former CEO as a board member has an impact on big bath accounting around CEO turnovers. Early evidence shows that when a CEO turnover occurs, the new CEO uses big bath to shift the responsibility for low earnings toward the previous management. However, the former CEO is often retained. This event may restrict the new CEO’s ability to take a big bath. Using a hand-collected sample of CEO turnover events in US firms, we find that CEO turnover increases the probability of a big bath. However, retaining the CEO acts as a monitoring mechanism by reducing the probability of big baths, especially opportunistic ones. Our findings indicate that CEO retention could be a useful corporate governance mechanism that restricts new CEO’s opportunistic practices.

Keywords: Big bath, CEO turnover, CEO retention

JEL Classification: M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Daniele, Mario and Desai, Prajakta and Imperatore, Claudia and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate, Big Baths Around Turnovers: What Happens If the Former CEO Stays on Board? (February 27, 2024). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4740720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
S Boivie , M K Bednar , R V Aguilera , J L Andrus
Are boards designed to fail? The implausibility of effective board monitoring
Academy of Management Annals , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 319 - 407 Posted: 2016
W Breuer , M A Follonier , A Knetsch
Big bath accounting in managerial tone following CEO turnovers
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
T E Christensen , G H Paik , E K Stice
Creating a bigger bath using the deferred tax valuation allowance
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 35 , issue 5-6 , p. 601 - 625 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
606
RANK
534,717
4 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies