Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nothing to fear: Strong corporate culture and workplace safety

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Jesper Haga

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Finance and Statistics

Fredrik Huhtamäki

Hanken School of Economics

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Timmy Thor

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the link between corporate culture and workplace safety. Using a machine learning based measure of corporate culture and data on employee- and safety-related violations, we find that firms with stronger corporate culture are less likely to be penalized, incur lower regulatory fines, and have a reduced number of violations. As a potential channel, we document higher safety expenditures with stronger corporate culture. When we examine establishment-level data on actual injuries and illnesses, we find that firms with stronger corporate culture have significantly lower injury and illness rates. While shareholders have previously been found to benefit from a stronger corporate culture, we contribute with both research and practical implications on the positive effects of a strong corporate culture for employees and society at large.

Keywords: Employee well-being, Corporate culture, Workplace injuries, Workplace safety

JEL Classification: G3, J28, K32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Haga, Jesper and Huhtamäki, Fredrik and Sundvik, Dennis and Thor, Timmy, Nothing to fear: Strong corporate culture and workplace safety (February 1, 2024). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4740104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Amernic , R Craig
CEO speeches and safety culture: British Petroleum before the Deepwater Horizon disaster
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 80 Posted: 2017
M R Amin , I Kim , S Lee
Local religiosity, workplace safety, and firm value
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 70 Posted: 2021
A Bajaj , L N K Leonard , Sun , Z Xing
Corporate social responsibility and annual report reading difficulty
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1393 - 1428 Posted: 2023
R F Baskerville
Hofstede never studied culture. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 28 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
RANK
549,043
2 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies