Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Access and Professional Investor Judgments

43 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

H. Scott Asay

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Michael T. Durney

University of Iowa

Patrick Witz

University of Wyoming

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

Research increasingly suggests private access to management provides investors with trading advantages, leading to an unlevel playing field. In this paper, we conduct two experiments to examine the influence of private access on professional investors’ investment preferences and to test the efficacy of potential interventions that may shift investors’ preferences for investing in companies that grant versus deny private access. We find that while investors prefer to invest when they are granted versus denied private access to management, these preferences for private access are attenuated when (a) investors are prompted to consider the implications of a firm’s private access policy in relation to other investors or (b) when these implications are explicitly highlighted. These interventions provide opportunities for firms and regulators to contribute to a level playing field by encouraging investors to carefully consider the broader implications of private access for all investors.

Keywords: professional investors, selective disclosure, private meetings, investor relations, financial reporting

JEL Classification: G23, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Asay, Hamilton Scott and Durney, Michael Thomas and Witz, Patrick, Private Access and Professional Investor Judgments (May 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4740875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Ali , M T Durney , J Fisch , H Kyung
Managers' private communications with analysts: The effect of SEC v. Siebel Systems Inc
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 1641 - 1670 Posted: 2023
M D Alicke , D A Dunning , J Krueger
Posted: 2005
K D Allee , B J Bushee , T J Kleppe , A T Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC's Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1235 - 1291 Posted: 2022
S B Anderson , M T Durney , S Garavaglia , K H Gee
Professional investors' asset measurement preferences Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
580,030
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies