Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Former Executives as Supervisors: Conflicts of Interest and Accounting Discretion

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 141

Forthcoming in the European Accounting Review

58 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2024 Last revised: 6 Nov 2024

Vincent Giese

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Clemens Lauer

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: February 26, 2024

Abstract

Due to their information advantages, former executives are routinely appointed to supervisory roles within the same firm. This practice is often criticized based on concerns about former executives' lack of independence and potential conflicts of interest. As supervisors, one of their main tasks is to oversee the financial reporting process and to challenge management' s assumptions and the projections that shape reporting outcomes. This study examines the effects of transitioning managers on accounting discretion in the context of goodwill impairments. Based on a largely hand-collected sample of such transition events, we find a decreased propensity and lower magnitude of goodwill impairments following transitions. This effect is robust when controlling for the underlying economic situation of the firms. Further analyses reveal that the effect is muted when more experienced executives, for transitions into more independent boards, and for transitions after longer cooling-off periods. Overall, our findings suggest that former executives who become supervisors tend to impact the way accounting discretion is exercised. Thereby, we add to the assessment of an important governance phenomenon and relate to regulatory debates around mandatory cooling-off periods and the impairment-only approach for goodwill accounting. 

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Agency Theory, Goodwill Impairment, IFRS, Accounting Discretion

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Giese, Vincent and Lauer, Clemens, Former Executives as Supervisors: Conflicts of Interest and Accounting Discretion (February 26, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 141, Forthcoming in the European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4740226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A Amel-Zadeh , M Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical Goodwill Research: Insights, Issues, and Implications for Standard Setting and Future Research , volume 32 , p. 415 - 446 Posted: 2023
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Examining the Patterns of Goodwill Impairments in Europe and the US
Accounting in Europe , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 329 - 352 Posted: 2016
I Andreicovici , A Jeny , D Lui
Disclosure Transparency and Disagreement Among Economic Agents: The Case of Goodwill Impairment
European Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
407,330
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies