Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credibility-enhancing tactics for social media corporate disclosures

Forthcoming in Accouting and Business Resarch

48 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Wei Sun

China Agricultural University - College of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 28, 2024

Abstract

This study examines two credibility-enhancing tactics when managers use Twitter as a platform to disclose a message about an employee training programme, which is an important dimension of corporate social responsibility (CSR). I conduct an experiment where I manipulate (1) whether a firm’s CEO retweets the company disclosure tweet in their personal Twitter account (hereafter, ‘retweeting’), and (2) whether the company’s tweet mentions the organisation that cooperates with the company’s CSR activities when the organisation, as an involved party, has a verified Twitter account (hereafter, ‘mentioning’). I document higher disclosure credibility for retweeting than non-retweeting, as it establishes a closer association between the CEO and the message. In addition, mentioning increases the social presence of the parties involved, as users can observe the interactions between them and the disclosing firm in real time. Furthermore, I find that the higher social presence of an involved party (e.g. customers, suppliers, and managers) due to mentioning results in higher disclosure credibility. Finally, investors are more likely to sceptically scrutinise signals from an internal party, which makes CEO retweeting less effective than mentioning. The effect of retweeting is subdued when both tactics are used.

Keywords: Twitter, social media, disclosure credibility, social presence theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, O16,C91

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Wei, Credibility-enhancing tactics for social media corporate disclosures (January 28, 2024). Forthcoming in Accouting and Business Resarch, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
741,762
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies