Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How sustainability assurance work gets done: assurors’ sensemaking, socialization and interactions with clients

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 38, Issue 1, 143-173, 2025.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024 Last revised: 6 Jan 2025

Lies Bouten

Iéseg School of Management

Sophie Hoozée

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Date Written: February 28, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – This study examines how assurors make sense of sustainability assurance (SA) work and how interactions with assurance team members and clients shape assurors’ sensemaking and their actual SA work.
Design/methodology/approach – To obtain detailed accounts of how SA work occurs on the ground, this study explores three SA engagements by interviewing the main actors involved, both at the client firms and at their Big Four assurance providers.
Findings – Individual assurors’ (i.e. partners and other team members) sensemaking of SA work results in the crafting of their logics of action, that is, their meanings about the objectives of SA work and how to conduct it. Without organizational socialization, team members may not arrive at shared meanings and deviate from the team-wide assurance approach. To fulfil their objectives for SA work, assurors may engage in socialization with clients or assume a temporary role. Yet, the role negotiations taking place in the shadows of the scope negotiations determine their default role during the engagement.
Originality/value – This study theoretically grounds how assurors make sense of SA work and documents how (the lack of) professional socialization, organizational socialization and socialization of frequent interaction partners at the client shape actual SA work. Thereby, it unravels the SA work concealed behind SA statements.
Practical implications – Two options are available to help SA statement users gauge the relevance of SA work, either displaying the SA work performed or making it more uniform.

Keywords: Assurance work, Sensemaking, Socialization, Sustainability assurance

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bouten, Lies and Hoozée, Sophie, How sustainability assurance work gets done: assurors’ sensemaking, socialization and interactions with clients (February 28, 2024). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 38, Issue 1, 143-173, 2025., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Sustainability at Work eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies