Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Dynamics and Shareholders’ Wealth: An Empirical Investigation based on NSE100 companies

7 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024 Last revised: 4 Apr 2024

Nidhi Gupta

Banaras Hindu University (BHU)

Prashantu Mer

Banaras Hindu University (BHU)

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of the relationship between dividend policy and shareholders' wealth and the impact of dividend policy on shareholders’ wealth. Dividend policy, a critical aspect of corporate finance, plays a pivotal role in shaping the financial landscape of a firm. Though thousands of researches in developed and developing nations have been done in this area still there is puzzle whether paying dividends influences shareholders’ wealth in a significant manner or not. The research attempts to shed light on the dynamics of the relationship between shareholders' wealth and dividend policy in the Indian context. The data for the study is gathered from the PROWESS IQ Database of CMIE consisting of 60 non-financial listed firms in NSE100 for 7 years i.e. 2017-2023. Correlation analysis is done to identify the relationship among DPS, DY, RPS, and EPS showing significant positive association among them. Using panel data and applying fixed effect model, the analysis shows there is significant positive impact of DPS & RPS on EPS.

Keywords: Dividend, shareholders’ value, shareholders’ wealth, retained earnings, dividend yield, earning per share

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Nidhi and Mer, Prashantu, Dividend Dynamics and Shareholders’ Wealth: An Empirical Investigation based on NSE100 companies (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4741548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
References
J Chenchehene , K Mensah
Dividend policy and its effects on shareholders wealth: Evidence from UK retail industry
Int. J Liberal Arts Soc. Sci , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 52 - 64 Posted: 2015
W Alim , A Ali , M I Qureshi
Impact of dividend policy on shareholder wealth in Pakistan (evidence textile industry perspective)
Gomal Univ. J Res , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 31 Posted: 2014
D Ofori-Sasu , J Y Abor , A K Osei
Dividend policy and shareholders' value: evidence from listed companies in Ghana
Afr. Dev Rev , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 304 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
521,283
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies