Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance Evaluation of A Bankrupt Bank: The Case of Silicon Valley Bank

Journal of Economics, Finance and Management Studies. Vol. 7 Issue 2, 2024

Posted: 9 Apr 2024

Mukdad Mohammad Ibrahim

American University of Ras Al Khaimah

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

The aim of this research paper is to evaluate and compare the financial performance of Silicon Valley Bank spanning the two-year period prior to its eventual bankruptcy in March 2023, using financial data derived from the former bank’s annual reports. Comparative financial ratio analysis was conducted pertaining to four groups of financial indicators, profitability, capital structure, liquidity and market performance. The results of this analysis reveal a decline in performance in 2022 in comparison with the 2021 business year. The decline coincided with the public emergence of formidable business and market risks for the bank. This study fills a critical gap in the literature by assessing the connection between firm performance and both accounting & market indicators during a time of heightened financial distress, whereas previous studies tended to take a closer look at the relationship between firm performance and one specific class on financial indicator while neglecting the other, equally important class of indicators.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Firm Performance, Accounting, Financial Risk, Market Performance

JEL Classification: G32, G33, L19, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ibrahim, Mukdad Mohammad, Financial Performance Evaluation of A Bankrupt Bank: The Case of Silicon Valley Bank (February 27, 2024). Journal of Economics, Finance and Management Studies. Vol. 7 Issue 2, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741738
 Not Available for Download
11 References
I V
3: Liquidity Indicators Analysis. Table 3 shows the analysis of liquidity levels between Posted: 2021
This ratio represents the percentage of customer deposits being used to offer loans to borrowers. The bank increasingly relied on existing deposits as the main source of funding for loans, going from a %34.80 utilization rate in 2021 to %42.52 in 2022. Thus, the bank increased its use of customers deposits to provide financing by %0 , volume 222
This ratio highlights the ability of the bank to meet its liability obligations solely using operating cash flow and is calculated by dividing operating cash flow by total liabilities. The analysis indicates the bank improved its ability in covering liability payments using operating cash flow, increasing from %0.959 in 2021 to %1.47 in 2022
Operating Cash Flow to Total Liabilities
Noninterest Expense to Noninterest Revenue. This ratio indicates the percentage of noninterest expenses to noninterest revenues. The analysis reveals that noninterest expenses formed %24.46 of noninterest revenue in 2021, showing a marked increase to %32
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies