Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG, Chaebols and Stock Price Crash

25 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2024

Jinhyung (Eric) Cho

Kakao

Jeong Hwan Lee

Hanyang University

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

Our research observes ESG factors mitigating or causing next year’s stock price crash for Korean firms including chaebols, unique type of Korean conglomerates. Using firm and (non)financial data, we analyze the relation of individual ESG data and future price crash. Our major findings are the following. First, we find the negative relationship between governance and stock price crash for Korean firms, implying that their price crashes are mitigated by the improvement of governance (G) factor. On the other hand, in contrast with previous researches, the relationship between social(S) factor and stock price crash for both chaebols and non-chaebols is quite uncertain in our sample due to contrasting effect of its subfactors such as partner and employee relation. Second, we find that the subfactor for governance, stockholder, has negative relationship with Korean firms regardless of their association with chaebols. Lastly, we find that environment (E) score for chaebols has positive relationship with stock price crash, signaling that the endeavor to improve environmental performance is linked to the substantial increase of financial costs, which could be penalized in the perspectives of investors. In contrast, this relationship is negative for non-chaebols, which is in accordance with previous researches. The aforementioned results are robust to controls for year characteristics and the removal of any outliers.

Keywords: Agency theory, Chaebols, ESG, Korea, Stock Price Crash

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M14

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Jinhyung (Eric) and Lee, Jeong Hwan, ESG, Chaebols and Stock Price Crash (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4741664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
References
A P Abeysekera , C S Fernando
Corporate social responsibility versus corporate shareholder responsibility: A family firm perspective
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 61 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2020
C L Ahmadjian , J Song
Corporate Governance Reform in Japan and South Korea: Two Paths of Globalization Posted: 2004
A Antoniou , P Holmes , R Priestley
The Effects of Stock Index Futures Trading on Stock Index Volatility: An Analysis of the Asymmetric Response of Volatility to News
The Journal of Future Markets , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
698
RANK
702,914
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies