Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Sanction Target on Managers' Compliance with Regulations

45 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2024

Kun Huo

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Matthew Sooy

Western University, Canada; University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Sara Wick

University of Guelph

Date Written: February 29, 2024

Abstract

Regulators use sanctions to deter managers of organizations from harmful conduct. Regulatory sanctions sometimes target individual violating managers but sometimes target entire violating organizations. We use an economic experiment to study the effect of targeting individuals versus entire organizations on managers' compliance decisions, comparing also to a condition with no sanctions. In our setting, compliance and non-compliance can take different levels similar to gaps in the ‘letter’ versus the ‘spirit’ of the law. Following distributive fairness theory, we predict that managers are less compliant when sanctions target individuals compared with no sanctions. However, compliance levels are restored when sanctions target entire firms. Our results are consistent with the theory that monetary sanctions targeting individuals de-emphasize distributive fairness. When sanctions target firms, however, managers are encouraged to consider fairness and how their decisions impact coworkers.

Keywords: Regulatory Compliance, Compliance, Regulatory Sanctions, Sanctions, Distributive Fairness, Ethics

JEL Classification: C71, D91, K20, K22, K42,

Suggested Citation:

Huo, Kun and Sooy, Matthew Thomas and Wick, Sara, The Effect of Sanction Target on Managers' Compliance with Regulations (February 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4742896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4742896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
H Y Abdel-Rahim , D E Stevens
Information system precision and honesty in managerial reporting: A re-examination of information asymmetry effects
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 64 , p. 31 - 43 Posted: 2017
M Agranov , A Buyalskaya
Deterrence Effects of Enforcement Schemes: An Experimental Study
Management Science , volume 1909 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2021
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
C D Batson , N Ahmad , J Yin , S J Bedell , J W Johnson , C M Templin , A Whiteside
Two threats to the common good: Self-interested egoism and empathy-induced altruism
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 16 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
841,369
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies