Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China

28 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024

Guosheng He

Liaoning University

Xiaobin Li

Liaoning University

Abstract

This study examines whether and how environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance is associated with corporate financialization. We find robust evidence that ESG performance statistically and significantly increases corporate financialization. The results of channel tests indicate that ESG performance increases corporate financialization by improving the firm's investment efficiency. Additionally, we find that the ESG performance of SOEs, firms with large assets and firm’s with small financing constraints has a stronger positive impact on corporate financialization. Collectively, our study highlights the importance of corporate ESG performance and its economic consequences.

Keywords: ESG performance, Corporate financialization, Investment efficiency, Corporate sustainability

Suggested Citation:

He, Guosheng and Li, Xiaobin, Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4742713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4742713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Anwar , J A Malik
When does corporate social responsibility disclosure affect investment efficiency? A new answer to an old question
SAGE Open , volume 10 , issue 2 Posted: 2020
M Baldini , L D Maso , G Liberatore , F Mazzi , S Terzani
Role of country and firm-Level determinants in environmental social and governance disclosure[J]
J. Business Ethics , volume 1 , p. 79 - 98 Posted: 2018
M Bostian , R Färe , S Grosskopf
Environmental investmentand firm performance: a network approach
J]. Energ. Econ , volume 57 , p. 243 - 255 Posted: 2016
D S Dhaliwal , O Z Li , A Tsang
Voluntary nonfinancial disclosure and the cost of equity capital: the initiation of corporate socialresponsibility reporting[J]
Account. Rev , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 100 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
RANK
635,835
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies