Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two-tier Board Characteristics and Expanded Audit Reporting: Evidence From China

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Emad Noureldeen

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School; Mansoura University - Faculty of Commerce

Mohamed Elsayed

Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Jianming Ye

Xiamen University

Date Written: February 6, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between the characteristics of the two-tier board structure (board of directors and supervisory board) and the disclosure of key audit matters (KAMs) in the expanded audit report. Using a sample of 10,857 firm-year observations of Chinese listed firms spanning the 2017-2020 period, we offer two main results. First, with regard to the board of directors, we find that the auditor discloses a greater number and lengthier content of KAMs when there is a CEO duality and the board meetings are more frequent. Second, conversely, we find that the size and independence of the supervisory board are related to a lower number and length of KAMs disclosure. When we distinguish between account-level KAMs and entity-level KAMs, our further analysis shows that our results are principally associated with account-level KAMs rather than entity-level KAMs. Specifically, we find that CEO duality and the frequency of board of directors meetings are positively related to account-level KAMs. We also find that the size and independence of the supervisory board are negatively related to account-level KAMs. Our further analysis also shows evidence that these two-tier board structure characteristics are associated with the tone of KAMs disclosure in a consistent fashion. Our findings are robust and address endogeneity problems. Overall, our results suggest that the characteristics of the two-tier board structure drive KAMs disclosure, which should be of interest to regulatory bodies, policymakers, auditors, multinational firms, and users of financial reports.

Keywords: Expanded audit report, Two-tier board, Corporate governance, Key audit matters, Board of directors, Supervisory board

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Noureldeen, Emad and Elsayed, Mohamed and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ye, Jianming, Two-tier Board Characteristics and Expanded Audit Reporting: Evidence From China (February 6, 2024). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4743425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4743425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female audit partners and extended audit reporting: UK evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2021
N A Abu , R Jaffar
Audit committee effectiveness and key audit matters
Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance , volume 14 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2020
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Comment letter on FRC revision to ISA (UK and Ireland) 700: Requiring the auditor's report to address risks of material misstatement, materiality and a summary of audit scope
International Review of Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2012
K Ahmed , M Hossain , M B Adams
The effects of board composition and board size on the informativeness of annual accounting earnings. Corporate governance: an international review , volume 14 , p. 418 - 431 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
856,579
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies