Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Donations in the Dark

ESCP Business School Research Paper

57 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024 Last revised: 21 Jan 2025

Ionela Andreicovici

IE Business School - IE University

Nava Cohen

New Jersey City University

Alessandro Ghio

ESCP Business School

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: February 29, 2024

Abstract

We examine the impact of the 2013 shift from mandatory to voluntary disclosure of corporate philanthropy in the United Kingdom (UK). Using a difference-in-differences approach over the period 2009-2017, we find that, relative to a sample of United States firms, UK firms (i) reduce corporate philanthropy disclosure and (ii) increase corporate philanthropic donations in the voluntary period. The increases in donations are more pronounced for firms with CEOs who have more connections to charities, while the decrease in disclosure is more pronounced for CEOs who are more involved in philanthropy. Moreover, we find that in the voluntary period, UK firms that decrease corporate philanthropy disclosure increase donations and donate to more prestigious charities. Overall, our results support the idea that the shift to voluntary disclosure (i) reduces managerial incentives to transparently report corporate philanthropic activities and (ii) exacerbates managers’ incentives to engage in self-serving corporate donations.

Keywords: corporate philanthropy, corporate social responsibility, disclosures, donations, regulation

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Andreicovici, Ionela and Cohen, Nava and Ghio, Alessandro and Paugam, Luc, Donations in the Dark (February 29, 2024). ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4743937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4743937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Acca
Strategic Report And Directors' Report) Regulations 2013 Apply To Financial Years Ending On Or After 30 September Posted: 2006
J D Angrist , P A Pathak , C R Walters
Explaining Charter School Effectiveness
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 5 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2013
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
A Arya , T Atanasov , B Mittendorf , D.-H Yoon
Inventory Planning And Tax Incentives For Charitable Giving
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
RANK
340,852
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies