Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reassessing Assurance in an Automated World: Insights from Board Members, Executives, and Internal Auditors

30 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024

Scott A. Emett

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Technological advances that automate work continue to transform the accounting profession. We examine whether automation impacts resource allocation within the internal audit function (IAF), a unique setting that allows us to compare demand for assurance activities with demand for consulting activities. We conduct an experiment in which experienced board members, executives, and internal auditors make budget recommendations for a company's IAF that developed automations that improved the efficiency of the IAF. Results show that across all groups, participants respond to these efficiencies by decreasing the IAF's total budget but retaining the productive capacity of the IAF. The budget cuts are targeted at the IAF's assurance activities and not at its consulting activities. Moreover, participants across all groups endorse further automation, anticipating its positive impact on the IAF. Overall, our results suggest companies respond to automation by redirecting efficiency gains towards activities other than assurance activities.

Keywords: Internal audit, automation, budgeting, assurance, technology, AI

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Emett, Scott A. and Eulerich, Marc and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Wood, David A., Reassessing Assurance in an Automated World: Insights from Board Members, Executives, and Internal Auditors (March 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4744611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4744611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Audit analytics and continuous audit: Looking toward the future Posted: 2015
U Anderson
Assurance and consulting services
Research Opportunities in Internal Auditing , p. 97 - 130 Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Ali Mohammad Gorgani , Seyyed Hossein Sajjadi , Mohammad Hossein Safarzadeh Bandari
Factors affecting the quality of relationships between internal auditors and auditees in Iranian companies
Dutch Journal of Finance and Management , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 28286 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Marc Eulerich , Aida Sanatizadeh , Hamid Vakilzadeh , David A. Wood
Is it all hype? ChatGPT’s performance and disruptive potential in the accounting and auditing industries
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 2318 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
207,451
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies