Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Abnormal Tone of CEO Letters in ESG Reports: What Does it Tell us about Future ESG and Financial Performance?

37 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Lars-Eric Brüske

University of Hamburg

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Florian Habermann

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management; University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Given the increasing relevance for companies to report on their ESG performance, companies respond by voluntarily issuing ESG reports. These reports usually contain CEO letters, in which CEOs comment on past and future ESG performance. In our study of 1,421 CEO letters in ESG reports of U.S. listed companies from 2015-2021, we examine whether the abnormal tone used by CEOs in these CEO letters is indicative of future ESG performance, or whether it is used to disguise poor future ESG performance instead. Additionally, we analyze the association between the abnormal tone of CEO letters in ESG reports and future financial performance, since CEOs’ confidence might be driven by future financial performance and in turn spill over to CEO letters in ESG reports. Our analyses reveal that the abnormal tone used in CEO letters is negatively associated with future ESG performance, while being positively associated with future financial performance. These results suggest that CEOs use the abnormal tone to influence the stakeholders’ perceptions, e.g., by masking poor future ESG performance in ESG reports. Moreover, the abnormal tone of CEO letters in ESG reports seems to be driven by future financial performance, indicating a spill-over effect of CEOs’ confidence regarding future financial performance. Taken together, we provide evidence that the abnormal tone of CEO letters in ESG reports is utilized as a form of impression management.

Keywords: tone, abnormal tone, textual analysis, CEO letter, ESG reporting, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Brüske, Lars-Eric and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Habermann, Florian, The Abnormal Tone of CEO Letters in ESG Reports: What Does it Tell us about Future ESG and Financial Performance? (March 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4744534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4744534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
K Albitar , T Abdoush , K Hussainey
Do corporate governance mechanisms and ESG disclosure drive CSR narrative tones?
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 3876 - 3890 Posted: 2022
H Al-Shaer , K Albitar , J Liu
CEO power and CSR-linked compensation for corporate environmental responsibility: UK evidence
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 1025 - 1063 Posted: 2023
J Amernic , R Craig , D Tourish
The transformational leader as pedagogue, physician, architect, commander, and saint: Five root metaphors in Jack Welch's letters to stockholders of General Electric
Human Relations , volume 60 , issue 12 , p. 1839 - 1872 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
189,110
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies