Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Independent Directors’ Communist Party of China Member Status and Firms’ ESG Performance: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms
Heliyon

21 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2024 Publication Status: Published

Fang Jia

Wuhan Polytechnic University

Xuerong Li

Wuhan Polytechnic University

Yan Gao

Wuhan Polytechnic University

Abstract

Under the leadership background of the Communist Party of China, this study aims to explore the relationship between independent directors who are members of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and firms’ ESG (environmental, social, and governance) performance. Using a sample of A shares firms from 2012 to 2021 in China, the Communist Party of China embedded in independent directors can significantly improve the firms ESG performance, and the board meeting is an important mechanism for the CPC-embeddedness effect in independent directors. Additionally, we also research the CPC-embeddedness effect from external supervision, attention level, ”full and strict governance over the Party”, and ownership nature.

Keywords: ESG, CPC, Independent directors

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Fang and Li, Xuerong and Gao, Yan, The Independent Directors’ Communist Party of China Member Status and Firms’ ESG Performance: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4745882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4745882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Qurat Ain , Ul
Female directors and agency costs: evidence from Chinese listed firms
International Journal of Emerging Markets , volume 16 , issue 8 , p. 1604 - 1633 Posted: 2021
Richard Borghesi , Joel F Houston , Andy Naranjo
Corporate socially responsible investments: CEO altruism, reputation, and shareholder interests
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 164 - 181 Posted: 2014
Bonnie Buchanan , Cathy Xuying Cao , Chongyang Chen
Corporate social responsibility, firm value, and influential institutional ownership
The British Accounting Review , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 73 - 95 Posted: 2018
Natasha Burns , Anna Kapalczynski , John K Wald
Independent director compensation, corruption, and monitoring
Financial Review , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 28 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies