Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Meets Data and Technology

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 970/2024

Foundations and Trends in Finance, Forthcoming

88 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2024 Last revised: 21 Mar 2024

Wei Jiang

Emory University Goizueta Business School; ECGI; NBER

Tao Li

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: July 08, 2024

Abstract

Corporate governance encompasses a set of processes, customs, policies, laws, and institutions that affect how a corporation is directed, administered, or controlled. Technology both enhances and disrupts the traditional board-centric corporate governance system, enhancing efficiency and transparency while introducing new challenges and risks. In this paper we examine three key themes comprehensively: the redefinition of information and information asymmetry through the generation of and access to big data; blockchain technology’s transformative potential for aggregating preferences and exercising shareholder voting rights while blurring the line between securities and tokens; and the impact of smart contracts and their underlying infrastructure on the expansion of contracts and the implementation of decentralized governance through decentralized autonomous organizations. These innovative technological solutions empower stakeholders to exercise governance rights effectively, but their complexity also gives rise to new barriers and inequalities. As technology evolves, collaboration among researchers, policymakers, and practitioners is imperative to ensure that corporate governance remains effective and responsive to the current dynamic business environment.


Keywords: Corporate Governance; Technology, Blockchain, Big Data, AI, decentralized autonomous organization (DAO)

JEL Classification: C55, D74, D82, G23, G34, G38, O33

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Wei and Li, Tao, Corporate Governance Meets Data and Technology (July 08, 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 970/2024, Foundations and Trends in Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4746141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4746141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2024
S Adhami , G Giudici , S Martinazzi
Why do businesses go crypto? An empirical analysis of initial coin offerings
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 100 , p. 64 - 75 Posted: 2018
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The review of economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Aloosh , J Li
Direct evidence of bitcoin wash trading
Management Science Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Sean Shun Cao , Wei Jiang , Lijun (Gillian) Lei , Qing (Clara) Zhou
Applied AI for finance and accounting: Alternative data and opportunities
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 84 , p. 102307 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,371
RANK
55,589
1 Citations
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies