Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Securities Litigation Risk on Firm Value and Disclosure

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Christian M. Hutzler

University of Texas at Austin

Brian Monsen

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: October 5, 2022

Abstract

Critics assert that securities class actions are economically burdensome and yield minimal recoveries, whereas proponents claim they deter wrongdoing. We examine key events in the recent Goldman Sachs Supreme Court case to test the net effect of securities litigation risk on shareholder value. We find that investors view securities class actions as value-increasing. However, the strength of this effect varies based on external monitoring. Investors view securities class actions as more value-enhancing when institutional ownership is low. We also use this setting to examine the effect of securities litigation risk on mandatory disclosure because the Goldman Sachs case focuses on mandatory disclosure properties. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find firm risk factor disclosures become shorter and less similar to industry peers, and they contain more uncertain and weak terms. Overall, our results show nuanced effects of securities litigation risk on shareholder value and firm disclosure.

Keywords: Securities Litigation Risk, Shareholder Value, Governance, Class Certification, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G30, G32, G34, G38, K22, K41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Hutzler, Christian M. and Monsen, Brian and Yust, Christopher, The Effect of Securities Litigation Risk on Firm Value and Disclosure (October 5, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4748971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4748971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
J Aharony , C Liu , A Yawson
Corporate litigation and executive turnover
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 268 - 292 Posted: 2015
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities price consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and related events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 2001
Baker Botts
The Supreme Court requires rigorous examination of class action certification for stock-drop suits alleging falsity of generic company statements Posted: 2021-06-23
Ballotpedia
SCOTUS case reversal rates (2007 -Present)
BallotPedia Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
294,806
1 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies