Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change and Corporate Culture of Innovation: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls

42 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Viput Ongsakul

NIDA Business School, National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA)

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Date Written: March 5, 2024

Abstract

Purpose:Exploiting novel measures of climate change exposure and corporate culture generated by a powerful textual analysis of earnings conference calls, we explore the effect of firm-specific climate change exposure on corporate innovation through the lens of corporate culture.

Design/Methodology/Approach:We apply the standard regression analysis as well as a variety of sophisticated techniques, namely propensity score matching, entropy balancing, and an instrumental variable analysis with multiple alternate instruments.

Findings:We find that more exposure to climate change risk results in more innovation as indicated by a significantly stronger culture of innovation. Our findings are consistent with the notion that firms more exposed to climate change risk are pressed to be more innovative in order to adapt to the various challenges resulting from climate change. Finally, we also find that the effect of firm-level exposure on innovation is considerably less pronounced during uncertain times.

Originality:We are among the first studies to take advantage of a novel measure of firm-specific exposure to climate change and investigate how climate change exposure influences an innovative culture. Since climate change is a timely issue, our findings have important implications for multiple stakeholders, such as shareholders, executives, and investors in general.

Keywords: climate change, innovation, corporate culture, textual analysis, machine learning

JEL Classification: G30, Q54, Q55, O31

Suggested Citation:

Ongsakul, Viput and Chintrakarn, Pandej and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn, Climate Change and Corporate Culture of Innovation: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls (March 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4748887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4748887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
J M Addoum , D T Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature Shocks and Establishment Sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
W Alderson
Marketing efficiency and the principle of postponement
Cost and Profit Outlook , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 3 Posted: 1950
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
RANK
517,938
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies