Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Firms Really Socially Responsible Like What They Say? Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms

19 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Juan Tao

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Xin Feng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xu-Dong Ji

Xi'an Jiaotong Liverpool University

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between CSR spending and CSR disclosure for Chinese firms from 2010 to 2020. It is found that there is a positive association between substantive CSR (CSR spending) and symbolic CSR (CSR disclosure) and this relationship is enhanced by both the adoption of GRI standards and third-party assurance for CSR reports. Further analysis reveals that the positive association between substantive CSR and symbolic CSR is mainly driven by firms’ CSR spending committed to primary stakeholder groups such as shareholders, staff and government, but not for general public stakeholders such as social and environment advocators.

Keywords: Substantive CSR, Symbolic CSR, GRI standards, External assurance, Signaling, Green-washing

Suggested Citation:

Tao, Juan and Feng, Xin and Ji, Xu-Dong, Are Firms Really Socially Responsible Like What They Say? Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
G Akerlof
the market for'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Q J Econ , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
A B Carroll
A three-dimensional conceptual model of corporate performance
Acad Manage Rev , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 497 - 505 Posted: 1979
P M Clarkson , Y Li , G D Richardson , F P Vasvari
Revisiting the relation between environmental performance and environmental disclosure: An empirical analysis
Account. Organ. Soc , volume 33 , issue 4-5 , p. 303 - 327 Posted: 2008
R Gray , R Kouhy , S Lavers
Corporate social and environmental reporting: a review of the literature and a longitudinal study of uk disclosure
Account. Audit. Account. J , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 77 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
RANK
880,636
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies