Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ESG Rating Affect the Real Earnings Management of Enterprises?- Evidence from China

93 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Keping Wu

School of Business & Administration Chaohu university

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Wei Yang

East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) - School of Business

Date Written: February 08, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores the relationship between ESG (environmental, social, and governance)ratings and real earnings management using data of Chinese listed companies from 2009 to 2021. We find that ESG ratings and real earnings management are negatively correlated, which indicates that the improvement of ESG rating will help to improve the level of corporate governance, standardize the business activities of enterprises, and thus help to reduce the real earnings management of enterprises. Overall, the impact mechanism of ESG ratings on REM revealed by us has clear policy implications for how managers can improve the quality of information disclosure in emerging markets.

Keywords: ESG rating, Real Earnings Management, Mechanism

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Keping and Kong, Dongmin and Yang, Wei, Does ESG Rating Affect the Real Earnings Management of Enterprises?- Evidence from China (February 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
A A J J Alchian
1950. Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory , volume 58 , p. 211 - 221
G J Alexander , Buchholz R A
Corporate social responsibility and stock market performance
Academy of Management Journal , volume 21 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1978
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , J D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
276,216
1 Citations
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies