Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Reforms and Corporate Debt Structure

67 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Xiaotian Liu

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Yaxuan Qi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

Wai Yee Wan

City University of Hong Kong; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

A growing number of jurisdictions have adopted bankruptcy law reforms to facilitate debt restructuring. Using a difference-in-differences model based on bankruptcy law reforms in six economically advanced jurisdictions, we discover that firms adopt more diversified debt instruments following the reforms. Importantly, firms that are more vulnerable to a tightening of credit supply are more adversely affected by the legal changes, and they also decrease overall debt borrowing and investment. Moreover, firms affected by the reforms use secured debt less frequently, aligning with the idea that these legal changes diminish the protection afforded to secured creditors. In addition, borrowing costs rise after the reforms, implying that creditors may adjust the terms of debt contracts to counterbalance the decreased legal protection.

Keywords: bankruptcy law, debt structure, borrowing cost, creditor rights

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiaotian and Qi, Yaxuan and Wan, Wai Yee, Bankruptcy Reforms and Corporate Debt Structure. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Acharya , V Viral , Yakov Amihud , Lubomir Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Acharya , V Viral , Krishnamurthy V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
Edward I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Kee Bae , Vidhan K Hong , Goyal
Creditor rights, enforcement, and bank loans
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
644,694
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies