Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Commitment and Long-Term Performance: A New Era for Korean Companies

36 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024

Tae H. Choi

KDI School of Public Policy and Management

Jinchul Jung

Chosun University

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

What is the current state of ethical management, especially in the context of AI’s growing influence on daily life and business practices? In the last 20 years, the focus has been on institutionalizing ethical management. Post-2015, companies have actively engaged in this process. The goal is to make these ethical systems integral to organizational culture and norms for all members. The United States’ SOX Act, following the Enron scandal, exemplifies such institutionalization, promoting transparent governance.

Key findings include: firstly, CSR now emphasizes a variety of stakeholders, including customers, employees, and shareholders. COVID-19 has highlighted the significant role of businesses in addressing environmental issues, leading to a focus on ESG management and sustainable practices. According to Pfeffer and Salancik’s Resource Dependence Theory, decision-making in organizations is more influenced by external resources than internal factors. A collaborative approach, as opposed to Porter’s Five Forces’ competitive model, is becoming more prevalent, turning diverse stakeholder relationships into competitive advantages (Ha and Park, 2022).

The study suggests ethical conflicts still exist despite progress in ethical institutionalization and awareness. The recent generational shift in corporate leadership to the MZ generation and third-generation managers implies a growing integration of fairness and justice in ethical management. The paradigm of ethical management is shifting towards a framework beneficial to society, emphasizing sustainability and compliance with environmental changes. This paradigm shift necessitates a corresponding change in the framework of institutionalization and normative perception of ethical management.

Keywords: Ethical Management, Institutionalization, Corporate Social Responsibility, ESG Management, Stakeholder Theory, Organizational Culture, Long-Term Performance, Korean Companies.

JEL Classification: F2, M5, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Tae H. and Jung, Jinchul, Ethical Commitment and Long-Term Performance: A New Era for Korean Companies (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Arnold , K Goodpaster , G Weaver
Past trends and future directions in business ethics and corporate responsibility scholarship
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 25 , issue 4 Posted: 2015
S N Brenner
Ethics programs and their dimensions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 11 , issue 5-6 , p. 391 - 399 Posted: 1992
S N Brenner , E A Molander
Is the ethics of business changing?
Harvard Business Review , volume 55 , p. 57 - 71 Posted: 1977
S.-W Byeon , G Heo
The role of trust in the relationship between ethical management and organizational citizenship behavior
Journal of Human Resource Management Research , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
611
RANK
872,402
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies