Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Disclosure Regulation and Investor Wealth

56 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Hami Amiraslani

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Xi Chen

University of Bristol

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: February 25, 2024

Abstract

We study the relation between climate disclosure regulation and investor wealth by examining market responses to events associated with the SEC’s proposed rule to enhance and standardize climate-related disclosures. Our findings suggest a negative investor response on average across all events and a more pronounced negative response to regulatory events and those that are directly related to the proposed rule. The negative investor response is stronger for firms with higher ex ante proprietary costs and greater exposure to litigation risk. Conversely, firms with sustainability-oriented governance structures and compensation schemes and those that voluntarily provide sustainability disclosures experience a less negative investor response. These results are not subsumed by firms’ exposure to climate risk. Our findings are consistent with theoretical predictions on the costs and benefits of disclosure regulation, reveal heterogeneity in the anticipated effects of climate transparency, and inform the debate around the SEC’s proposed climate disclosure rule.

Keywords: climate change, disclosure, emissions, ESG, governance, regulation, SEC, sustainability

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G28, G34, G38, M12, M14, M41, M48, Q51, Q54, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Amiraslani, Hami and Chen, Xi and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Pope, Peter F., Climate Disclosure Regulation and Investor Wealth (February 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
H Amiraslani , C Deller , C Ittner , T Keusch
Board risk oversight and environmental and social performance Posted: 2023
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
M Barth , S Cahan , L Chen , E Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,728
RANK
132,557
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies