Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture, Corporate Governance, and Independent Directors: Evidence from Textual Analysis

51 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Ali Uyar

La Rochelle Business School

Merve Kilic

Samsun University

Date Written: March 5, 2024

Abstract

Purpose - Taking advantage of a unique measure of corporate culture obtained from advanced machine learning algorithms, we explore how corporate culture strength is influenced by board independence, which is one of the most crucial aspects of the board of directors. Because of their independence from the corporation, outside independent directors are more likely to be unbiased. As a result, board independence is commonly used as a proxy for board quality.

Design - In addition to the standard regression analysis, we execute a variety of additional tests, i.e., propensity score matching, an instrumental-variable analysis, Lewbel's (2012) heteroscedastic identification, and Oster's (2019) testing for coefficient stability.

Findings - Our results show that stronger board independence, measured by a higher proportion of independent directors, is significantly associated with corporate culture. In particular, a rise in board independence by one standard deviation results in an improvement in corporate culture by 32.8%

Originality - Conducting empirical research on corporate culture is incredibly difficult due to the inherent difficulties in recognizing and assessing corporate culture, resulting in a lack of empirical research on corporate culture in the literature. We fill this important void in the literature. Exploiting a novel measure of corporate culture based on textual analysis, our study is the first to link corporate culture to corporate governance with a specific focus on board independence.

Keywords: Corporate culture, Board independence, Independent directors, Corporate governance, Machine learning, Textual analysis

JEL Classification: M14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Uyar, Ali and Kilic, Merve, Corporate Culture, Corporate Governance, and Independent Directors: Evidence from Textual Analysis (March 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
403,165
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies