Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collusion Through Debt and Managers

36 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Salvatore Piccolo

University of Bergamo

RAFFAELE FIOCCO

University of Bergamo

Giancarlo Spagnolo

University of Rome Tor Vergata; EIEF; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Stockholm School of Economics (SITE)

Abstract

We investigate the anticompetitive effects of debt financing and managerial incentives in the presence of managers incurring personal bankruptcy costs. We characterize the strategic value for firms’ shareholders of resorting to debt and managerial incentives as complementary devices to sustain collusion among firms, when managerial bankruptcy costs are sufficiently responsive to the severity of financial distress. The shareholders’ inability to commit to debt and managerial contracts implies that common lending to different firms constitutes a key driver for collusion. These results square with the welldocumented empirical evidence on debt financing, managerial incentives, and common lending in sectors plagued by collusion.

Keywords: bankruptcy, Collusion, common lending, Corporate Governance, debt financing, managerial incentives

Suggested Citation:

Piccolo, Salvatore and FIOCCO, RAFFAELE and Spagnolo, Giancarlo, Collusion Through Debt and Managers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
D Acemoglu
Credit market imperfections and the separation of ownership from control
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 381 Posted: 1998
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Agency costs, firm behavior and the nature of competition. IDEI Working Papers No 77 Posted: 2000
F Allen , D Gale , X Vives
Corporate governance and competition
Corporate governance: Theoretical and empirical perspectives , p. 23 - 83 Posted: 2000
S Antill
Do the right firms survive bankruptcy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 523 - 546 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
819,493
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies