Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specialization in Securities Enforcement

64 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024 Last revised: 20 Aug 2025

Nathan D. Herrmann

University of Texas at Austin

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: August 19, 2025

Abstract

In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced a significant reorganization of its Division of Enforcement, creating five specialized units (SUs) and adopting a matrix reporting structure. Using novel data that reveals topical and geographic variation in these SUs, we show that regulator specialization is associated with increased enforcement intensity but no change in average sanctions. Our findings suggest that regulator specialization improves efficiency, as SUs start fewer low-quality investigations, complete investigations more quickly, and file more cases as settled charges. We find no evidence that the SUs strategically prioritized simpler cases to boost reported metrics. Finally, we find that regulator specialization is associated with improved deterrence of informed insider trading, consistent with the greater enforcement increasing perceived detection risk. 

Keywords: Securities and Exchange Commission, Enforcement, Regulatory Design, Specialization, Matrix Reporting

JEL Classification: G18, H11, K22, K42, L51, M48

Suggested Citation:

Herrmann, Nathan and Kubic, Matthew and Toynbee, Sara, Specialization in Securities Enforcement (August 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
170,545
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies