Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organization Capital, Dividends and Firm Value: International Evidence

45 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Ioannis Chasiotis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex

Kanellos Toudas

Agricultural University of Athens

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between organizational capital, dividends, and firm value across 30 countries. We find that organization capital relates to higher dividend payouts. Our results also show that this relationship is stronger among countries with a more flexible labor market. We document that the market places a premium on dividend payouts for firms with higher organization capital. Further analysis reveals that the above effects are more pronounced in environments marked by substantial agency costs. The robustness of our evidence is affirmed through various endogeneity tests and supports the agency view of organizational capital.

Keywords: organization capital, intangible capital, dividends, payout policy, firm value, agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Chasiotis, Ioannis and Loukopoulos, Georgios and Toudas, Kanellos, Organization Capital, Dividends and Firm Value: International Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4749950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies