Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Signaling and Investor Protection: An International Comparison

43 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024

Xiaotong Deng

UNSW Business School

Sander De Groote

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Abstract

This study examines whether dividend changes signal future earnings growth in non-US markets utilizing the Ham et al. (2020) methodology and whether the strength of the earnings signal varies predictably with the level of investor protection. Based on the notion that weak investor protection reduces the cost of cutting dividends and increases the incentives to pay out excess cash, we expect that the strength of the earnings signal in dividend increases becomes weaker as investor protection decreases. In a sample drawn from 41 different countries, our results indicate while dividends can signal future earnings in non-US markets, the strength of the signal is weaker than that in the US. In line with our predictions, we find that for firms in a strong investor protection environment, dividend changes are correlated more strongly with subsequent earning changes than is the case for firms in weak investor protection environments.

Keywords: Dividends, Signaling, Investor Protection

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Xiaotong and De Groote, Sander and Li, Chao, Dividend Signaling and Investor Protection: An International Comparison. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4750980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4750980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
W K Al-Shattarat , B K Al-Shattarat , R Hamed
Do dividends announcements signal future earnings changes for Jordanian firms
Journal of financial reporting and Accounting Posted: 2018
I Ali , N Muhammad , A Gohar
Do Firms Use Dividend Changes to Signal Future Earnings? An Investigaation Based on Market Rationality
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 20 - 34 Posted: 2017
M Alzahrani , M Lasfer
Investor protection, taxation, and dividends
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 745 - 762 Posted: 2012
S C Bae , K Chang , E Kang
Culture, corporate governance, and dividend policy: international evidence
Journal of Financial Research , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 316 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
846
RANK
631,426
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies