Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Carbon Risk and Green M&As

33 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2024

Duan Liu

Hunan University

Yuxuan Xiong

Hunan University

Lili Wang

Hunan University

Shujie Yao

Chongqing University

Abstract

Green M&A is more conducive to the realization of national and global carbon goals than carbon-transfer M&A. In the context of emission reduction and economic development, studying the risk pressure brought about by carbon emission to drive green M&A is important. This study analyzes the effect of carbon risk on green M&As using data for China's A-share listed firms in 2010-19. It verifies the promoting effect of carbon risk on green M&As from two underlying mechanisms. First, the risk of high carbon emission increases pressure on corporate environmental legitimacy. Second, carbon emission behavior poses a reputational risk to firms. Firms with high carbon risk conduct green M&As to meet legitimacy requirements and maintain a good reputation. Under these two mechanisms, stronger environmental regulations and better CSR performance can intensify the stimulating effect. Our study provides empirical evidence on reducing carbon risk from the perspective of firms' holistic green transformation.

Keywords: carbon risk, Green M&A, Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Regulation.

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Duan and Xiong, Yuxuan and Wang, Lili and Yao, Shujie, Corporate Carbon Risk and Green M&As. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4750028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4750028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S Albrizio , T Kozluk , V Zipperer
Environmental policies and productivity growth: Evidence across industries and firms
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 81 , p. 209 - 226 Posted: 2017
K Babiak , S Trendafilova
CSR and environmental responsibility: Motives and pressures to adopt green management practices
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 24 Posted: 2011
P Bachmann , D Ingenhoff
Legitimacy through CSR disclosures? The advantage outweighs the disadvantages
Public Relations Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 386 - 394 Posted: 2016
B Balachandran , J H Nguyen
Does carbon risk matter in firm dividend policy? Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in an imputation environment
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 96 , p. 249 - 267 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Harshita Mongia , M. Thenmozhi , Syed Shams
Cross-Border M&A and Carbon Emissions: The Role of Policy Uncertainty
IREF-D-25-05359 · 34 Pages · Posted: 3 Oct 2025 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies