Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Directors’ Status and R&D: A Study Based on Chinese Cultural Background

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024

32 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024

Shangkun Liang

Central University of Finance and Economics

Rong Fu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Yanfeng Jiang

Beijing University of Agriculture

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Purpose
Independent directors are important corporate decision participants and makers. Based on the Chinese cultural background, this paper interprets the listing order of independent directors as independent directors’ status, exploring their influence on the corporate research and development (R&D) behavior.

Design/methodology/approach
This paper studies A-share listed firms in China from 2008 to 2018 as the sample. The main method is ordinary least square (OLS) regression. We also use other methods to deal with endogenous problems, such as the firm fixed effect method, change model method, two-stage instrumental variable method, and Heckman two-stage method.

Findings
(1) Higher independent directors’ status attribute to more effective exertion of supervision and consultation function, and positively enhance the corporate R&D investment. The increase of the independent director’ status by one standard deviation will increase the R&D investment by 4.6%. (2) The above effect is more influential in firms with stronger traditional culture atmosphere, higher information opacity and higher performance volatility. (3) High-status independent directors promote R&D investment by improving the scientificity of R&D evaluation and reducing information asymmetry. (4) The enhancing effect of independent director’ status on R&D investment is positively associated with the firm’s patent output and market value.

Originality/value
This paper contributes to understanding the relationship between the independent directors’ status and their duty execution from an embedded cultural background perspective. The findings of the study enlighten the improvement of corporate governance efficiency and the healthy development of the capital market.

Keywords: Cultural background, Independent directors’ status, R&D investment, R&D evaluation, Information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G34, M14, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Shangkun and Fu, Rong and Jiang, Yanfeng, Independent Directors’ Status and R&D: A Study Based on Chinese Cultural Background (March 1, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4750974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
S Blader , Y Chen
Differentiating the effects of status and power: A justice perspective
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 102 , issue 5 , p. 994 - 1014 Posted: 2012
J R Brown , G Martinsson , B C Petersen
Do financing constraints matter for R&D?
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 8 , p. 1512 - 1529 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Sandy Harianto , Janto Haman
The Effects of Political Connections on Labor Investment: Evidence from Indonesia
China Accounting &amp; Finance Review, volume 26, issue 5, 2024 · 34 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 25
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
864,457
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies