Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
OpenAI’s Transformation: From a Non-profit to a 100 Billion Valuation

17 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Alexandra Andhov

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law; University of Auckland - Department of Commercial Law; University of Copenhagen - Faculty of Law

Date Written: March 6, 2024

Abstract

The transformation of OpenAI from its altruistic non-profit origins to a commercially-driven entity valued at over $100 billion represents a significant paradigm shift in the Big Tech world. Established in 2015 with the aim of developing AI for the greater good and providing open-source resources, OpenAI has since pivoted to a profit-generating model, underscored by a strategic partnership with Microsoft. This evolution has raised questions about the stewardship of data initially gathered under its non-profit model, intellectual property rights, and financial strategies to optimise tax positions. A pivotal moment in OpenAI's trajectory was the launch of ChatGPT in November 2022, which rapidly acquired 100 million users, surpassing the adoption rates of social media like TikTok and Instagram. This article delves into OpenAI's transition, examining the ethical and strategic dimensions of moving from a non-profit through a capped-profit model to a fully commercial approach, scrutinizing the role and alignment of its board members with the organisation's mission statement. Additionally, the analysis extends to the implications of OpenAI's alliance with Microsoft, probing potential conflicts with the company's original mission and values.

Keywords: OpenAI, corporate structure, corporate governance, NGO

Suggested Citation:

Andhov, Alexandra, OpenAI’s Transformation: From a Non-profit to a 100 Billion Valuation (March 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4750197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4750197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
N Bajekal , B Perrifo
Sam Altman is TIME's 2023 CEO of the year
TIME Posted: 2023-12-06
D Bass
Microsoft to invest $1 billion in OpenAI
Los Angeles Times Posted: 2019
G Brockam
Introducing OpenAI. OpenAI Posted: 2015
G Brockman
Microsoft invests in and partners with OpenAI to support us building beneficial AGI Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,099
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,753
RANK
45,873
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Frontiers of Management Inquiry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies