Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservatism: Valuation Demand or Contracting Demand

47 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024

Gabriel Lee

Victoria University of Wellington

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Abstract

This paper investigates whether and how climate risk influences the level of accounting conservatism and explains the results based on two competing channels: contracting demand and valuation demand. Using a sample of 35,832 firm-year observations on listed U.S. firms over the period 2002 to 2019, we find that climate risk reduces the level of accounting conservatism. We conclude that the results are consistent with valuation demand explanation but inconsistent with contracting demand explanation. Our findings contradict the results of prior studies. We explain our results from a unique perspective. A series of robustness tests provide supporting evidence for our baseline results and our explanation.

Keywords: Conservatism, Valuation demand, Contracting demand, Climate Risk

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Gabriel and van Zijl, Tony and Willett, Roger J., Conservatism: Valuation Demand or Contracting Demand. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4751094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4751094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Jawad M Addoum , Ng , T David , Ariel Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and establishment sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
Christopher S Armstrong , Wayne R Guay , Joseph P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Marc Badia , Duro , Miguel , Penalva , Fernando , Ryan , G Stephen
Debiasing the measurement of conditional conservatism
Journal of accounting research , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
Balasingham Balachandran , Justin Nguyen , Hung
Does carbon risk matter in firm dividend policy? Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in an imputation environment
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 96 , p. 249 - 267 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
RANK
697,608
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies