Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Anti-Takeover Provisions Restrain IPO Underpricing? An Analysis from the Perspective of Information Asymmetry

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024

21 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024

Kejing Chen

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Xiaolin Li

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Qingqing Wan

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Jing Ye

Dongbei University of Finance & Economics

Mo Yang

School of Finance, Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Purpose
Based on the textual-analyzed data covering 2148 IPO firms in China’s stock market during the 2007–2018 period, the authors’ purpose is to examine the influence of anti-takeover provision (ATP) adoption on initial public offerings (IPO) underpricing and identify the reducing effect of the former.

Design/methodology/approach
The authors examine the sample consisting of Chinese A-share listed IPO firms between 2007 and 2018 from China Stock Market Accounting Research and Chinese Research Data Services, with ATP data collected from the IPO firm chapters. Specifically, the authors use text analysis to identify whether there are ATPs in the IPO firm chapters, as well as the number of ATPs. H1: IPO underpricing is less severe for firms adopting ATPs. H2: The effect of ATP adoption on IPO underpricing is more salient for firms in worse information environments.

Findings
The authors examine the influence of ATP adoption on IPO underpricing and identify the reducing effect of the former. This effect can be explained by the fact that adopting ATPs in IPO firm chapters can reduce information asymmetry to a large extent by helping external investors obtain more private information, which alleviates IPO underpricing. The authors also find that the reducing effect is more significant in the worsened information environment. Furthermore, the authors explore the influence of adopting ATPs on other IPO characteristics and find positive effects on IPO over-subscription, funds raised and trading activity and negative effects on listing fees.

Originality/value
This study mainly contributes to the literature from the following two aspects. First, the study enriches the literature about the influencing factors of IPO underpricing. Second, the study also enriches the literature about the economic consequences of ATP adoption. This study also has important policy implications. With the coming of the era of decentralized ownership in China’s capital market, ATP adoption has become more important and attracted more attention. Also, investors focus more on pricing efficiency. The findings in this paper provide a more comprehensive understanding of the relationship between ATP adoption and IPO underpricing.

Keywords: IPO underpricing, Anti-takeover provisions, Information asymmetry, Capital market efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kejing and Li, Xiaolin and Wan, Qingqing and Ye, Jing and Yang, Mo, Do Anti-Takeover Provisions Restrain IPO Underpricing? An Analysis from the Perspective of Information Asymmetry (March 1, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4751025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Asymmetric information, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
F Allen , G R Faulhaber
Signalling by underpricing in the IPO market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 323 Posted: 1989
J S Ang , J C Brau
Firm transparency and the costs of going public
Journal of Financial Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2002
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: Evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
848,823
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies