Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Behavioral Foundations of International Anti-Bribery Laws: Results From an International Lab-Type Experiment

72 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2024

Theodore Alysandratos

Heidelberg University

Abigail Barr

University of Nottingham

Cormac Bryce

City University London

Thorsten Chmura

Nottingham Trent University

Elizabeth Dávid-Barrett

University of Sussex

Marcus Giamattei

University of Passau

Date Written: March 8, 2024

Abstract

This study employs experimental methods across nine nations (N = 2506) to scrutinize the behavioural foundations of international anti-bribery laws. It assesses how individuals' conduct is influenced by their expectations of enforcement, specifically gauging the probability that a 'Monitor' will detect, report, and penalize their transgressions. The findings reveal a substantial and significant decrease in the incidence of bribery when a Monitor is present. This decline results from the perception that the Monitor will expose corruption, despite participants harboring inaccurate beliefs about the likelihood of Monitors imposing penalties. Our results suggest that the extraterritorial enforcement of anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Extortion Prevention Act, holds promise in combating corruption in international business transactions. However, our findings indicate that effective deterrence depends on authorities widely publicizing their enforcement activities. The desired impact of new laws cannot materialize if those targeted lack accurate beliefs about the authorities' inclination to enforce them.

Keywords: Corruption, Experiments, Bribery, Norms, Foreign Extortion Prevention Act

JEL Classification: D73, C91, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Alysandratos, Theodore and Barr, Abigail Margaret and Bryce, Cormac and Chmura, Thorsten and David-Barrett, Elizabeth and Giamattei, Marcus, The Behavioral Foundations of International Anti-Bribery Laws: Results From an International Lab-Type Experiment (March 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4752776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J Andreoni , B D Bernheim
Social image and the 50-50 norm: A theoretical and experimental analysis of audience effects
Econometrica , volume 77 , issue 5 , p. 1607 - 1636 Posted: 2009
J Andreoni , R Petrie
Public goods experiments without confidentiality: a glimpse into fund-raising
Journal of Public Economics , volume 88 , issue 7-8 , p. 1605 - 1623 Posted: 2004-07
D Ariely , A Bracha , S Meier
Doing good or doing well? image motivation and monetary incentives in behaving prosocially
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 544 - 555 Posted: 2009-02
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan
Do government audits reduce corruption? estimating the impacts of exposing corrupt politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , issue 5 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2018-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
576,053
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies