Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Conscientiousness and Reserve Management: Evidence from U.S. Property-Liability Insurers

69 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Gene Lai

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Gunratan Lonare

Illinois State University

Zifen Zeng

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Date Written: March 8, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the relation between CEO conscientiousness and reserve management in U.S. property-liability insurers. The psychology literature claims that conscientiousness is one of the strongest predictors of work-related behavior. We find that CEO conscientiousness is negatively associated with reserve errors in the upper tail of the conditional distribution (at 75th percentile and higher), indicating insurers with more conscientious CEOs reserve less than insurers with less conscientious CEOs at a higher level of reserve errors to lower the cost of excess reserve rather than conservatism when reserve errors are extremely conservative. The evidence also shows that the negative relation is mitigated when insurers face high financial risk. Furthermore, more conscientious CEOs reserve less than less conscientious CEOs after SOX (compared with before SOX) when insurers face higher financial risk, possibly because they are more responsible for financial statements. The evidence is consistent with one feature of conscientiousness: following the rules and norms. Finally, more conscientious CEOs are better rewarded than less conscientious CEOs.

Keywords: Big Five traits, Conscientiousness, Reserve Error, Responsible, SOX

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Gene and Lonare, Gunratan and Zeng, Zifen, CEO Conscientiousness and Reserve Management: Evidence from U.S. Property-Liability Insurers (March 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4752813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
An empirical analysis of CEO risk aversion and the propensity to SMOOTH earnings volatility
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 235 Posted: 2007
B Adebambo , R M Bowen , S Malhotra , P Zhu
CEO extraversion and the cost of equity capital Posted: 2022
G Ahuja , C M Lampert , V Tandon
1 moving beyond Schumpeter: management research on the determinants of technological innovation , volume 2 , p. 1 - 98 Posted: 2008
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
564
RANK
534,717
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies