Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Overseas Experiences and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China
Heliyon

17 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2024 Publication Status: Preprint

Minyu Zheng

Universiti Putra Malaysia

Normaziah Mohd Nor

Universiti Putra Malaysia

Zariyawati Mohd Ashhari

Universiti Putra Malaysia

Abstract

Recently, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) with overseas experiences show the “star effect”, according to upper echelons theory, CEOs’ overseas experiences might relate to corporate financialization, but there is little evidence of whether and how CEOs’ overseas experiences affect it. Given the increasing trend of hiring overseas CEO in China, the study fills in the gap in the literature by examining the effect of CEOs with overseas experiences on corporate financialization. In sum, the study employs a two-way fixed effect model to investigate the relationship between CEOs with overseas experiences and corporate financialization, a conclusion that remains valid after a series of robustness tests. CEOs with overseas experiences primarily inhibit corporate financialization by alleviating financing constraints and improving investment efficiency. Furthermore, the study finds that compared to overseas work experience, overseas study experience has a more pronounced inhibitory effect on corporate financialization. Female CEOs and young CEOs with overseas experiences exhibit a more significant inhibitory effect on corporate financialization. Cross-sectional tests show that the inhibitory effects are more pronounced in SOEs and non-polluting industries and the eastern regions, especially in the highly marketized provinces in China.

Keywords: Overseas CEO, Corporate financialization, financing constraints, investment efficiency, upper echelons theory

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Minyu and Nor, Normaziah Mohd and Mohd Ashhari, Zariyawati, CEO Overseas Experiences and Corporate Financialization: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4752678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Agha , M D Pham , ) Marty , J Yu
Management connectedness and corporate investment
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 124 Posted: 2021
Komal Bilal , B Ezeani , E Usman , M Kwabi , F Ye , C
Do the educational profile, gender, and professional experience of audit committee financial experts improve financial reporting quality
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 53 Posted: 2023
X Cao , Z Wang , G Li , Y Zheng
The impact of chief executive officers'(CEOs') overseas experience on the corporate innovation performance of enterprises in China
Journal of Innovation & Knowledge , volume 7 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
Y Chen , B Shen , Y Cao , S Wang
CEO social capital, financing constraints and corporate financialisation: Evidence from Chinese listed companies
Finance Research Letters , volume 60 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
408
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies