Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Business Succession Questions in Scholarly Publications: A Data Analytics

12 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2024

Fahmi Ali Hudaefi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study employed bibliometric analysis, i.e., a kind of big data analytics for evaluating scholarly publications, to assess the academic publications on the subjects of succession question and family business. The Scopus database was sourced to harvest 176 scholarly manuscripts published on 139 academic platforms which were written by 386 scholars. The analysis was primarily accomplished via the use of machine learning, i.e., R Studio and VOSviewer. Four research questions were formulated based on the fundamental bibliometric theories, i.e., performance analysis, citation and co-citation analyses, bibliographic coupling, and social network analysis. The questions aimed to identify the most impactful manuscripts, scholarly journals, authors, and institutions of affiliation related to the succession question and family business topics. This study further established the discussion of the current issues in succession question and family business from the authors’ keyword and the bibliographic coupling analytics. This study contributes to the critical novelty in the assessment of academic publications related to succession question and family business topics.

Keywords: Bibliometrics, Data Analytics, Succession Question, Family Business, and Scientometrics.

Suggested Citation:

Hudaefi, Fahmi Ali, Family Business Succession Questions in Scholarly Publications: A Data Analytics. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4754021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4754021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
J.-P Ahrens
The succession question and the family firm: A theoretical, conceptual, and historical reflection
European Entrepreneurship Research and Practice: A Multifaceted Effort Towards Integration of Different Perspectives , p. 109 - 139 Posted: 2020
M Aria , C Cuccurullo
bibliometrix: An R-tool for comprehensive science mapping analysis
Journal of Informetrics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 959 - 975 Posted: 2017
Massimo Aria , C Cuccurullo
bibliometrix: Comprehensive Science Mapping Analysis Posted: 2021
Massimo Aria , C Cuccurullo , L D'aniello , M Misuraca , M Spano
Thematic Analysis as a New Culturomic Tool: The Social Media Coverage on COVID-19 Pandemic in Italy , volume 14 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
344
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies