Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Real Earning Management and Environmental, Social, and Governance Transparency on Financing Costs

19 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2024

Adel Necib

University of Sfax

Malek El Weriemmi

University of Gabes

Anis Jarboui

University of Sfax

Date Written: March 10, 2024

Abstract

The aim of this research is to investigate the potential relationship between reduced loan and equity financing costs and stakeholder confidence in sustainable development practices as assessed by ESG information disclosure. We also investigate the potential moderating role of actual earnings management. We use a fixed effects panel data analysis to examine 97 firm-year observations of UK firms from 2014 to 2023. According to the research, investors place a lower value on ESG disclosure and increase the price of shares, whilst lenders view it favourably and reduce the cost of debt. Furthermore, when the moderating effects of real earnings management is taken into account, the effect of ESG disclosure on the cost of debt decreases and the effect on the cost of equity grows. Lenders and investors seem to think that when companies use ESG disclosure to mask their true earnings management, they are using it to defend their practices.

Keywords: Environmental policy, ESG disclosure, Real earnings management, Stakeholder engagement, Sustainable development, COD, COE, FTSE 100

Suggested Citation:

Necib, Adel and Weriemmi, Malek El and Jarboui, Anis, The Impact of Real Earning Management and Environmental, Social, and Governance Transparency on Financing Costs (March 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4754362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4754362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Abu-El-Haija , N Kothari , J Lee , P Natsev , G Toderici , B Varadarajan , S Vijayanarasimhan
Youtube-8m: A large-scale video classification benchmark Posted: 2016
J Ambrosioni , J L Blanco , J M Reyes-Urueña , M A Davies , O Sued , M A Marcos , .
J Muñoz
Overview of SARS-CoV-2 infection in adults living with HIV
The lancet HIV , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 294 - e305 Posted: 2021
K Anastasiou , P Baker , M Hadjikakou , G A Hendrie , M Lawrence
A conceptual framework for understanding the environmental impacts of ultra-processed foods and implications for sustainable food systems
Journal of Cleaner Production Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
366,257
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies