Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who is elected to the board of directors and why?

29 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Christophe Volonté

University of Basel

Date Written: March 11, 2024

Abstract

The optimal composition of a company's board of directors is important for its success. In this study, we examine the professional competencies of board members and their relationship with firm performance, governance policies, and election results. Using a novel dataset, our analysis encompasses 6,796 director-year observations, 919 firm-year observations, and 6,039 agenda items from 2017 to 2023 in Switzerland. The results reveal that the mix of competencies has changed over time, but the increase in the proportion of women on boards does not primarily drive this change. Our results suggest that board members' professional qualifications, such as CEO experience and expertise in digitalization, are more relevant to firm performance and election outcomes than their demographic characteristics (gender, nationality, and age). Specifically, directors with digitalization expertise show a positive correlation with Tobin's Q. These candidates not only become more prevalent but also receive substantial support from shareholders during annual general meetings. In contrast, female directors are associated with policies related to “good governance” and sustainability. Furthermore, the findings show that the complete absence of specific skills has a more significant impact on firm performance than the proportion of these skills on the board.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board of directors, Director competencies, Director elections

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Volonté, Christophe, Who is elected to the board of directors and why? (March 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4755109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4755109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , U Yilmaz
Why do investors vote against corporate directors Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
611
RANK
702,914
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies