Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Effects of Anti-Profit Shifting Regulations: A Developing Country Perspective

21 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2024 Last revised: 19 Apr 2024

Sabine Laudage Teles

German Institute of Development and Sustainability (IDOS)

Nadine Riedel

University of Münster

Kristina Strohmaier

University of Duisburg-Essen

Abstract

Multinational profit shifting is a major concern for low and middle income countries (LMICs). Many have enacted anti-profit shifting rules in order to constrain this type of tax avoidance behavior. Yet, not much is known on the rules’ effects. We offer a first empirical assessment, providing two pieces of evidence: First, we draw on macro data for more than 120 LMICs for a 30-year-period and show that the introduction of transfer pricing (TP) rules – provisions that constrain profit shifting from mis-pricing of intra-firm trade – significantly increased corporate tax revenue collection in LMICs. Second, we use rich tax administrative and trade data for South Africa to provide “first- stage” evidence for firms’ behavioral response to stricter TP provisions: we establish that a tightening of South African TP rules reduced intra-firm trade mis-pricing and increased taxable income reporting of affected multinational firms.

Keywords: corporate taxation, international taxation, transfer pricing laws

Suggested Citation:

Laudage Teles, Sabine and Riedel, Nadine and Strohmaier, Kristina, On the Effects of Anti-Profit Shifting Regulations: A Developing Country Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4755498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4755498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why pay more? corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9-10 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 660 - 688 Posted: 2020
S Beer , J Loeprick
Profit shifting: drivers of transfer (mis) pricing and the potential of countermeasures
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 426 - 451 Posted: 2015
K Bilicka , Y Qi , J Xing
Real responses to anti-tax avoidance policies: Evidence from UK's worldwide debt cap
Journal of Public Economics , volume 214 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies