Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Burden the Hand: Regulatory Intensity and Payout Policy

Posted: 28 Mar 2024 Last revised: 24 Apr 2025

Yahia Abdelbar

Wayne State University - Mike Ilitch School of Business

Yoonsoo Nam

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business - Department of Finance

Cuyler Strong

Wayne State University - Mike Ilitch School of Business

April Wang

Washington State University

Date Written: March 12, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of regulatory intensity on firms’ payout policies. While regulations may increase budgetary pressure, leading to decreased payout, regulatory burden increasing total payout and dividends is found. The documented payout increase is significant for firms with higher institutional ownership or those needing more managerial discipline, but not driven by low investment opportunities. Firms increasing payout followed by regulations are associated with enhanced firm value. The results indicate that shareholders pressure firms to increase dividends to discipline managers who take advantage of the heightened uncertainty that the regulatory burden induces.

Keywords: Payout Policy, Dividends, Share Repurchases, Regulation, Governance

JEL Classification: G34, G35, G38

Suggested Citation:

Abdelbar, Yahia and Nam, Yoonsoo and Strong, Cuyler and Wang, April, Burden the Hand: Regulatory Intensity and Payout Policy (March 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4756912 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4756912
 Not Available for Download
58 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Dividends and economic policy uncertainty: International evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
H K Baker , D M Smith
In search of a residual dividend policy
Review of Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies