Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Reservoir” or “Crowding Out”: The Impact of Corporate Financialization on Audit Fees

33 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

周 会

Yunnan Minzu University

Xi Gao

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Wei Zhang

Yunnan Minzu University

Pengzhen Lou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Based from the "reservoir" and "crowding out" effects of financial asset, we explore the impact of corporate financialization on audit fees using data from listed companies in China for the period 2007-2021. We find a U-shaped relationship between the degree of financialization and audit fees, and this result persists even after passing a series of robustness tests. The heterogeneity analysis shows that factors such as equity concentration, CEO financial background, and financial constraints positively influence the above relationship. Channel analysis suggests that corporate earnings management plays a partial mediating role in this process. The results of the study clearly illustrate the mechanism of the “double-edged sword” effect of corporate financialization on audit fees. In addition, the economic consequences of the financialization of companies from an audit perspective are intensively discussed. We provide new empirical evidence for audit pricing decisions and provides insights into financial risk prevention and management from an audit viewpoint.

Keywords: Financialization, "Reservoir" Effect, "Crowding Out" Effect, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

会, 周 and Gao, Xi and Zhang, Wei and Lou, Pengzhen, “Reservoir” or “Crowding Out”: The Impact of Corporate Financialization on Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
H M Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
T B Bell , J B Griffin
Commentary on Auditing High-Uncertainty Fair Value Estimates
Auditing A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 155 Posted: 2012
H J Cai , Q Xie , H Zhang
Active Adaptability or Short--run Profit Pursuing: Institutional Logic of Entity Companies Financialization from the Perspective of Environmental Regulation
Accounting Research , issue 4 , p. 78 - 88 Posted: 2021
W Cao , H D Qi , C Zhao
Research on the Motivation for Financial Asset Allocation: Analysis Based on the Nature of Property Rights and the Reform of Mixed-ownership , p. 150 - 168 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
RANK
897,300
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies