Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Regulatory Minority Shareholder and CSR: Evidence from China

17 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Jinhua Li

South China Normal University - School of Economics and Management

Zhaoxin Li

South China Normal University

Abstract

Using the DID model to investigate the impact of the exercise of CSISC shareholding on CSR. The results indicate that CSISC exercise can restrain CSR. Heterogeneity tests reveal that this conclusion is evident for firms with weak social supervision pressure and low CSR disclosure quality. Mechanistic analysis demonstrates that CSISC diminishes CSR through disclosing negative information and bolstering the participation of minority shareholders in corporate governance. Moreover, the study finds that CSISC exercise also enhances the risk-taking level of enterprises. Collectively, these findings suggest the CSISC exercise can prompt insiders to curtail CSR to safeguard the interests of minority shareholders.

Keywords: Corporate governance, China Securities Investor Services Center, Minority Shareholders, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinhua and Li, Zhaoxin, A Regulatory Minority Shareholder and CSR: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Al Shaer , H Uyar , A Kuzey , C Karaman , A S
Do shareholders punish or reward excessive CSR engagement? Moderating effect of cash flow and firm growth
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 88 Posted: 2023
A Barnea , A Rubin
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Conflict Between Shareholders
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
S Chen , Y Chen , D Zhang , J M Wang
Can minority investor activism promote corporate risk-taking? Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in China
Interantional Review of Financial Analysis , volume 85 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
B B Choi , D Lee , Y Park
Corporate social responsibility, corporate governance and earnings quality: Evidence from Korea
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 447 - 467 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies