Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Md&A Similarity and Corporate Financial Distress: Evidence from China

37 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Ying Zhou

Dalian University of Technology

Long Shen

Dalian University of Technology

Guotai Chi

Dalian University of Technology

Abstract

The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has expressed concerns regarding the quality of disclosure in management discussion and analysis (MD&A) reports. This paper explores the economic ramifications of MD&A text predictors in the context of financial distress. We develop a comprehensive Chinese financial dictionary and apply Latent Semantic Indexing and cosine similarity to evaluate the year-on-year MD&A similarity. Our findings indicate that the MD&A similarity metric can effectively detect financial distress and is positively correlated with it. Furthermore, we find that state-owned firms enhance the positive relationship between MD&A similarity and financial distress. Dominance analysis results demonstrate that all variables contribute to a more accurate prediction. We validate our primary results using sample splits and bivariate probit models. Our study examines the impact of unstructured text data on corporate financial distress in emerging markets, providing crucial insights for investors and regulators.

Keywords: MD&A similarity, Financial distress, Information asymmetry, Emerging market

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Ying and Shen, Long and Chi, Guotai, Md&A Similarity and Corporate Financial Distress: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Almamy , J Aston , L N Ngwa
An evaluation of Altman's Z-score using cash flow ratio to predict corporate failure amid the recent financial crisis: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 36 , p. 278 - 285 Posted: 2016
E I Altman
Financial ratios and the probabilistic prediction of bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
J D Amato , C H Furfine
Are credit ratings procyclical?
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 2641 - 2677 Posted: 2004
H Ashbaugh , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 737 - 783 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
RANK
644,694
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies