Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Ambulance Chasing? Plaintiff’s Attorney Marketing as a Signal of Corporate Litigation Risk

54 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Steven E. Kaplan

Arizona State University

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Matt Peterson

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Eric H. Weisbrod

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether plaintiff's attorney marketing releases are useful in predicting the incidence and severity of corporate litigation. We find that in order to solicit plaintiffs to join potential lawsuits, plaintiff's attorneys selectively announce corporate "investigations" around a small percentage of adverse trigger events. These marketing releases strongly predict future litigation, controlling for known determinants of litigation risk including characteristics of the associated trigger events. We examine plaintiff's attorney marketing via both social and traditional media. Our results suggest that the predictive value of social media marketing is incremental to that of traditional media, and that social media marketing serves a causal role in facilitating litigation by connecting attorneys with potential plaintiffs using targeted content algorithms. We also find that investigation announcements are associated with larger monetary damages awarded to plaintiffs for cases that are subsequently settled, consistent with attorneys using their judgment to selectively market following adverse events with larger expected damages. In contrast to "ambulance chasing," these results are consistent with plaintiff’s attorneys’ pre-filing marketing efforts reflecting their informed professional judgment of corporate liability and providing a timely public signal of meritorious future litigation.

Keywords: Corporate Litigation, Litigation Risk, Social Media, Marketing, Plaintiff's Attorneys

JEL Classification: K40, K41, M37, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Steven E. and Masli, Adi and Peterson, Matt and Weisbrod, Eric H., Corporate Ambulance Chasing? Plaintiff’s Attorney Marketing as a Signal of Corporate Litigation Risk (September 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M Arena , S Ferris
A survey of litigation in corporate finance
Managerial Finance , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 18 Posted: 2017
L A Baker , M A Perino , C Silver
Is the Price Right: An Empirical Study of Fee-Setting in Securities Class Actions
Colum. L. Rev , volume 115 Posted: 2015
B Campbell , M Drake , J Thornock , B Twedt
Earnings virality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Securities Class Action Filings: 2023 Mid-Year Assessment , p. 9 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
307,529
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies