Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
M&A between Financial Services Firms or Banks and Fintech's

11 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Luis Arturo Bernal Ponce

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rebeca Minerva García Villalobos

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Adriana Ramírez Rocha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We address the effect on the financial performance of a financial service firm for acquiring a fintech.  We compare the buyer's financial performance one year before the completion date and one year after. We found evidence of a positive effect on the firm's financial performance one year after the acquisition when we measured financial performance as ROA or cash flow, but no effect measuring performance with the market-to-book indicator. We found the same effect if the target was from the industrial sector when targets were from France and the UK or if the acquirers were from the USA or India.

Keywords: Banks Mergers, Acquisitions, Value of Firms

Suggested Citation:

Bernal Ponce, Luis Arturo and García Villalobos, Rebeca Minerva and Ramírez Rocha, Adriana, M&A between Financial Services Firms or Banks and Fintech's. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
RANK
753,521
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies