Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Enhancing ESG Performance Lead to the Improved Financial Performance of Heavy Polluter Enterprises? Evidence from China

40 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Jiayuan Liang

Harbin University of Commerce

Fengge Yao

Harbin University of Commerce

Jiemin Huang

Harbin University of Commerce

Jun Zhou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In recent years, public and corporate investors have shown keen interest and extensive concern about whether heavy polluter enterprises (HPE) can boost their financial performance by improving their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. This study uses information collected on a sample of Chinese HPE from 2009 to 2022 to empirically explore the link between ESG performance and financial performance to shed light on this matter. (1) This paper's primary conclusion is that, by improving their ESG performance, HPE can also perform financially better. (2) The subgroup study's findings indicate that the financial performance of HPE in the eastern region is significantly impacted by enhancing ESG performance. In contrast, the influence is negligible in the western and central parts of the nation. There is little correlation between the financial performance of HPE and their environmental performance. Their social and governance performance significantly positively impacts financial performance of HPE. HPE in private, a higher proportion of women in management, and more market-oriented regions can significantly improve their financial performance when they improve their ESG performance. (3) The results of the mechanism study suggest that HPE might reduce financing restrictions and, as a result, enhance their financial performance by improving ESG performance. The results of this paper can provide a solid empirical basis and guidance for corporate managers, institutional investors, and the government in formulating ESG strategies, investment decisions, and policy formulation.

Keywords: ESG performance, Financial performance, Financing constraints

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Jiayuan and Yao, Fengge and Huang, Jiemin and Zhou, Jun, Does Enhancing ESG Performance Lead to the Improved Financial Performance of Heavy Polluter Enterprises? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies