Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Cuts and a Firm’s Investment Opportunity Set

Das, S, and Dhole, S. 2024. Dividend Cuts and a Firm’s Investment Opportunity Set. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12801]

55 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 27 Nov 2024

Somnath Das

University of Illinois at Chicago

Sandip Dhole

Monash University

Date Written: March 14, 2024

Abstract

This paper re-examines corporate dividend payout policy by focusing on how investors evaluate dividend cuts. Our focus is to understand why despite the documented ‘on average’ negative market response, many dividend cutting firms experience a positive market response. We juxtapose a well-established literature on corporate payout policies with the literature on the role of prior information in investor evaluation of newly arrived information, and document that the market responds positively to dividend cuts when firms have positive investment opportunity sets. Our results support the primary thesis that not all dividend cuts are bad news – it depends. We validate this result by documenting that firms cutting dividends in the presence of investment opportunities do make significant investments such as capital expenditures and M&A activities in future years. Furthermore, we also find that future operating profitability is higher for dividend cutting firms with relatively higher investment opportunities. We also document that among dividend cutting firms, there is a statistically significant difference in the buy and hold returns for up to two years, between firms with high versus low investment opportunities. This provides support for the economic significance of our results. These results provide new evidence on how investors interpret corporate payout policies to distinguish among dividend cuts.

Keywords: Contextual Information, Dividend decreases, Ex-post Validation, Information Content, Investment Opportunity Set, Investor Response, Payout Policy, Prior Information, State-dependency

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G35. M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Das, Somnath and Dhole, Sandip, Dividend Cuts and a Firm’s Investment Opportunity Set (March 14, 2024). Das, S, and Dhole, S. 2024. Dividend Cuts and a Firm’s Investment Opportunity Set. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming , Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12801], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4759753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly dividend and earnings announcements and stockholders' returns: An empirical analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
K L Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of corporate dividend policy: A factorial analysis
Financial Review , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
RANK
864,457
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies