Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seasoned Equity Offerings and Firm Workplace Safety

46 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2024

Mahmoud Gad

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Claudia Marangoni

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Lars Helge Haß

University of Strathclyde - Strathclyde Business School; Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Date Written: March 13, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the changes in employee workplace safety around Seasoned Equity Offerings (SEOs). Equity issuing firms have competing incentives: They may cut investments in workplace safety to inflate firm profits in order to increase SEO proceeds, or they may increase investments in workplace safety to appeal to current and prospective shareholders, especially those that value firms’ corporate social responsibility commitments. The equilibrium that firms achieve has far-reaching implications not only for their own long-term viability, but also for stakeholders, including regulators, investors, and society as a whole. By using data on U.S. workplace health and safety violations to proxy for workplace safety, we show that the frequency of such violations increases in proximity to SEOs. We further examine the ripple effects of workplace safety violations on employees’ perception of their employer, and on subsequent firm financial and stock market performance. Our results suggest that in the two years following an SEO, there is a noticeable shift towards negative sentiment among employees. Additionally, firms with workplace safety violations tend to experience a stronger deterioration in their financial and stock market performance. Overall, firms appear to compromise employee workplace safety to enhance their financial performance and maximize SEO proceeds, yet they inadvertently undermine post-SEO productivity and performance in the process.

Keywords: Seasoned Equity Offerings, Workplace Safety, Employees, Performance, Myopia

JEL Classification: D25, J01, J28, G32, L25

Suggested Citation:

Gad, Mahmoud and Marangoni, Claudia and Haß, Lars Helge, Seasoned Equity Offerings and Firm Workplace Safety (March 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4759539 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4759539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
RANK
296,056
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies