Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-border Impact of the ESG Disclosure Mandate: Evidence from Foreign Government Procurement Contracts

80 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 26 Jul 2025

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Chengzhu (Lisa) Sun

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Yi Xiang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: July 26, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether and how mandating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure affects firms’ competitiveness for foreign government procurement contracts. Exploiting the staggered implementation of ESG disclosure mandates across countries, we find that firms attain more contracts from foreign governments and that these contracts have higher values after their home countries mandate ESG disclosure. We show that the ESG disclosure mandate affects the global allocation of government procurements through two channels: increased ESG information transparency and enhanced ESG performance. The mandate’s effect is more pronounced when government customers exhibit higher ESG consciousness and when the procurement process has ESG-related requirements. The mandate’s effect is also more pronounced when government customers have a larger pool of potential suppliers, when the mandate is more strictly enforced, and when bidders significantly improve their ESG transparency following the mandate. Overall, our findings shed novel light on the cross-border impact of mandatory ESG disclosure.

Keywords: Government procurement contracts; Environmental, social, and governance (ESG); Mandatory disclosure, transparency, government customers, global market

JEL Classification: G14, G15, K22, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Sun, Chengzhu (Lisa) and Xiang, Yi and Zeng, Cheng, Cross-border Impact of the ESG Disclosure Mandate: Evidence from Foreign Government Procurement Contracts (July 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4759377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4759377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Afifi , V Clark , S May
Computer-Aided Multivariate Analysis Posted: 2004
G L Albano , K F Snider , K V Thai
Charting a Course in Public Procurement Innovation and Knowledge Sharing Posted: 2013
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Parallel worlds: Fixed effects, differences-in-differences, and panel data
Mostly Harmless Econometrics , p. 221 - 248 Posted: 2008
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler
Theory, research design assumptions, and causal inferences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 366 - 373 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Samuel Buertey , Richard Ramsawak , Binh Hoang Nguyen
Sustainability Reporting Awards and Market Reaction: The Sustainability Awareness of Investors on the Vietnam Stock Market
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 3423 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,990
RANK
106,324
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies