Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Catering to an Illusion: The Impact of Nominal Stock Price on Corporate Voluntary Disclosure

56 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Hui Ding

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Qin Tan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: July 18, 2024

Abstract

We study the influence of investors’ biased expectations on firms’ voluntary disclosure by exploiting nominal price illusion. As nominal price illusion induces investors to overestimate the growth potential of low-priced stocks, we predict and find that, to cater to investors’ growth expectations, firms with lower-priced stocks are less likely to voluntarily disclose bad news than those with higher-priced stocks. Further, we find that the effect of nominal stock price on bad news disclosures is more pronounced when firms have stronger catering incentives or more difficulties in convincing investors of their growth potential. We also show that reducing bad news disclosures indeed helps firms with lower-price stock maintain investors’ growth expectations and that such activities are associated with greater crash risk. Overall, our evidence suggests that investors’ behavioral bias could affect firms’ voluntary disclosures. 

Keywords: Nominal Price Illusion, Behavioral Bias, Voluntary Disclosures, Investor Catering

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Ding, Hui and Tan, Qin, Catering to an Illusion: The Impact of Nominal Stock Price on Corporate Voluntary Disclosure (July 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4759340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Anton Babkin , Brent Glover , Oliver Levine
Are corporate inversions good for shareholders?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 251 Posted: 2017
Stephen P Baginski , L John , Lisa Campbell , David S Hinson , Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
H Baker , Patricia L Kent , Gallagher
Management's view of stock splits
Financial Management , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 73 - 77 Posted: 1980
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
Appearing and disappearing dividends: The link to catering incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 288 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
778,745
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies