Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Taxes and Unrelated Mergers and Acquisitions

70 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 25 Feb 2025

Jeffrey L. Coles

University of Utah - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jason Sandvik

Eller College of Management, University of Arizona

Nathan Seegert

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Aazam Virani

Independent

Date Written: July 25, 2024

Abstract

Acquisitions of unrelated firms are often viewed as opportunistic, value-destroying choices by self-interested managers. We posit that unrelated M&A can generate some benefit for shareholders by circumventing high personal income taxes on dividends. We test this mechanism using the 2003 reduction in dividend tax rates (JGTRRA) and a novel relatedness index that augments the conventional horizontal and vertical measures with geographic proximity. Following the tax cut, dividend-paying firms were less likely to do unrelated M&A, in both absolute terms and relative to repurchasers. Accordingly, the post-merger returns to unrelated M&A increased. We observe none of these effects for related acquisitions.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Business Taxation, Payout Policy

JEL Classification: G34, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Coles, Jeffrey L. and Sandvik, Jason and Seegert, Nathan and Virani, Aazam, Personal Taxes and Unrelated Mergers and Acquisitions (July 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4760434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4760434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Mehmet E Akbulut , John G Matsusaka
50+ years of diversification announcements
Financial Review , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 262 Posted: 2010
Franklin Allen , Antonio Bernardo , Ivo Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2002
Heitor Almeida , Ruidi Huang , Yuhai Xuan
Are share repurchases really flexible? Working Paper Posted: 2023
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
RANK
413,842
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies