Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Earnings Management: Firm Performance and Earnings Management in Congressional Elections

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4760961

60 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Yang Chen

The University of Hong Kong

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: September 06, 2024

Abstract

We explore the links between House of Representatives elections, local firm performance, and financial reporting choices. Our findings reveal that firms strategically manage earnings upward when their local representative campaigns for re-election. Consistent with accounting manipulation, this behavior is less pronounced in firms more constrained by outside monitoring and accounting choices. Consistent with political motivation, it is more prevalent in firms that can extract more benefits from re-election (e.g., when representatives are more senior, corruption is more common, more employees work locally, and local attention to local financial news is greater). This earnings management is accentuated among firms actively engaged in corporate political activities (e.g., lobbying). Finally, political earnings management benefits both politicians and firms. Firms that adopt these reporting choices are more likely to receive subsidies and government contracts than other firms, and incumbents are less likely to lose elections.

Keywords: earnings management, congressional elections, firm performance, corporate political activities

JEL Classification: M41, M48, D72

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yang and Hilary, Gilles and Hui, Kai Wai, Political Earnings Management: Firm Performance and Earnings Management in Congressional Elections (September 06, 2024). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4760961, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4760961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4760961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
O G Abbe , J Goodliffe , P S Hernson; , K D Patterson
Agenda Setting in Congressional Elections: The Impact of Issues and Campaigns on Voting Behavior
Political Research Quarterly , volume 56 , p. 419 - 430 Posted: 2003
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO Tenure and Earnings Management
The Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
R M Alvarez , J L Saving
Congressional Committees and the Political Economy of Federal Outlays
Public Choice , volume 92 , p. 55 - 73 Posted: 1997
D Aobdia , A Koester; , R Petacchi
Political Connections and Government Subsidies: State-Level Evidence Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
RANK
261,368
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies