Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow Unchained: Does the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act make U.S. multinational corporations more vulnerable to collective bargaining action?

59 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 28 Mar 2025

Dennis Ahn

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Charles Lee

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) on negotiations between labor unions and U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs). Before the TCJA, U.S. MNCs operated under a worldwide tax system that levied incremental U.S. taxes on earnings repatriated from overseas, prompting MNCs to leave large cash balances abroad and simultaneously allowing them to shelter earnings from union demands. The TCJA resolves such “trapped cash” concerns by allowing MNCs to repatriate foreign cash without incurring incremental U.S. federal income tax. This elimination of the threat of repatriation tax cost opens access to previously sheltered foreign cash for domestic unions and incentivizes those unions to act on the opportunity to pressure employers to concede to union demands. Consistent with our prediction, we find that cash-rich MNCs become more vulnerable to collective bargaining activities of unions after the TCJA, evidenced by increases in union membership rates and both the frequency and duration of strikes. We also find supporting evidence to attribute the ex-post increase in union activity to the specific provision of the TCJA that “unchains” previously trapped cash. 

Keywords: TCJA, tax policy, labor unions, bargaining strength

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Dennis and Chuk, Elizabeth and Lee, Charles and Wilson, Ryan J., Cash Flow Unchained: Does the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act make U.S. multinational corporations more vulnerable to collective bargaining action? (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4761094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4761094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: The effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
O Ashenfelter , G E Johnson
Bargaining Theory, Trade Unions, and Industrial Strike Activity
American Economic Review , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 1969
T J Atwood , J Downes , J Henley , M Mathis
The Impact of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. Firm Acquisitions of Domestic and Foreign Targets Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
RANK
424,948
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies