Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Integrity and the Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms

54 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2024

Mo Yang

Southwest Jiaotong University

Sishi Yue

Southwest Jiaotong University

Dayong Dong

Southwest Jiaotong University

Jiawei Cao

Southwest Jiaotong University

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates the relationship between management integrity, as assessed using textual analysis and machine learning techniques based on the Upper Echelons Theory and Trust Theory from social psychology, and the cost of equity capital. The findings demonstrate that the integrity-related language disclosed in the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) reflects the internal ethical standards of managers, and is negatively associated with the cost of equity capital. Corporate governance and information asymmetry serve as channels through which management integrity influences capital costs, respectively. Further analysis identifies the negative correlation between management integrity and capital costs is particularly noticeable in firms with a non-state-owned nature or a robust regional legal system. Additionally, management integrity exhibits a positive association with the company’s future value. Briefly, this study contributes to existing literature on managerial personal characteristics, and provides practical recommendations for talent management at the executive level in enterprises.

Keywords: Management integrity, Cost of equity capital, Corporate governance, Information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Mo and Yue, Sishi and Dong, Dayong and Cao, Jiawei, Management Integrity and the Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from Chinese Listed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4761264 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4761264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
A A Amighini , R Rabellotti
Do Chinese state-owned and private enterprises differ in their internationalization strategies?
China Economic Review , volume 27 , p. 312 - 325 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Market microstructure and securities values: Evidence from the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 390 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
RANK
713,531
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies