Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Uncertainty and Voluntary Disclosure

The Wharton School Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 4 Jun 2025

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Rachel Xi Zhang

NUS Business School

Date Written: June 03, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether managers respond to unexpected increases in investor uncertainty by accelerating the release of relevant information. If managers possess firm-specific information that could help resolve uncertainty among investors, we expect them to release it in a timely manner, independent of the nature of the news. Using a global panel containing observations from 33 countries over the 2004 to 2019 period, we find evidence consistent with this prediction. We identify unexpected increases in investor uncertainty by extreme stock price movements and show that firms are both more likely to issue voluntary disclosure and timelier in doing so after such shocks. The results are stronger when managers are likely endowed with more private information but mitigated or even reversed when the sources of investor uncertainty are macroeconomic rather than firm-specific factors. The voluntary disclosure following information shocks contains more verifiable, financial information, is more value relevant to investors as measured by absolute announcement returns and (abnormal) trading volume, and lowers investors’ risk expectations. Overall, our findings suggest that management responds to increased demand for information in times of investor uncertainty.

Keywords: Disclosure timeliness, Information uncertainty, Endogeneity of disclosures, Management forecasts, International accounting

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Wang, Clare and Zhang, Rachel Xi, Investor Uncertainty and Voluntary Disclosure (June 03, 2025). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4761586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4761586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
86,526
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies