Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Outsider Corporate Governance Reforms in the Context of Insider Governance: A Perspective from Sub-Saharan Africa

36 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2024

Olabisi Daodu

De Montfort University

Emmanuel Adegbite

University of Nottingham

Abstract

This study examines the applicability of the global outsider corporate governance reforms to the predominant insider corporate governance in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Drawing on the neo-institutionalist perspective, the study employed a qualitative research method involving documentary analysis and in-depth semi-structured interviews with relevant stakeholders in SSA-Nigeria. The findings reveal how the predominance of the insider structure in Nigeria leads to the emergence of a relational governance framework that challenges global reforms but complements corporate governance efficiency. While the dynamics of corporate governance practices in Nigeria contest the principles of global reforms, nonetheless, corporate accountability is not deterred. This study re-conceptualises the principles on which global corporate governance reforms are premised. In particular, it reappraises the interconnectivity of the notions of independence, responsibility and accountability in governance reforms. Essentially, the study contributes to the policy and practice debate on ‘good’ governance by exploring an alternative relational approach to corporate governance efficiency.

Keywords: Corporate accountability, Neo-institutional theory, Insider structure, Sub-Saharan Africa

Suggested Citation:

Daodu, Olabisi and Adegbite, Emmanuel, Global Outsider Corporate Governance Reforms in the Context of Insider Governance: A Perspective from Sub-Saharan Africa. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4761109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4761109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
E Adegbite
Good corporate governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, propositions and peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
E Adegbite , K Amaeshi , O Amao
The Politics of Shareholder Activism in Nigeria
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 105 , issue 3 Posted: 2012
E Adegbite , O Daodu , J Wood
Will Africapitalism work?
Africa Journal of Management , volume 6 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
A A Adekoya
Corporate Governance Reforms in Nigeria: Challenges and Suggested Solutions
Journal of Business Systems , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
872,402
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies