Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Priorities, Institutional Quality, and Investment

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 971/2024

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 24-3

79 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024 Last revised: 22 Aug 2025

Amar Gande

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Guanmin Liao

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Lemma W. Senbet

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Xiaoyun Yu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

Date Written: March 17, 2024

Abstract

We provide a theoretical framework and empirical evidence characterizing positive and negative externalities that lead corporate investments to deviate from socially optimal levels. A limited liability organizational form, combined with the optimally designed corporate taxes and subsidies, can induce socially optimal investments. A novel empirical prediction is that the quality of institutions can play an important moderating role. Our empirical work is based on the setting from China and utilizes its five-year plans, private and state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and provincial level differences in institutional quality. Our evidence shows that the level of corporate tax required to induce socially optimal investments is lower in the presence of high-quality institutions.

Keywords: social optimality, taxation, investment, legal systems, externalities, environmental protection, green investment, institutions

JEL Classification: G3, G31, G38, H2, H21

Suggested Citation:

Gande, Amar and John, Kose and Liao, Guanmin and Senbet, Lemma W. and Yu, Xiaoyun, Social Priorities, Institutional Quality, and Investment (March 17, 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 971/2024, SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 24-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to bankruptcy and the optimal financial structure of the firm
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
P Aghion , J Cai , M Dewatripont , L Du , A Harrison , P Legros
Industrial Policy and Competition
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How Does Financial Reporting Quality Relate to Investment Efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
M Bradshaw , G Liao , M Ma
Agency costs and tax planning when the government is a major shareholder
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
444,118
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies