Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Giving Beyond Borders: Corporate Bribery and Philanthropic Giving Overseas

53 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024 Last revised: 2 May 2024

Weishi Jia

Cleveland State University - Monte Ahuja College of Business

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Danlei Bonnie Yu

Soochow University

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

Companies engage in corporate philanthropy internationally. Prior studies on corporate philanthropy have focused on giving to domestic institutions while factors that drive corporate giving beyond domestic borders remain unclear. Using corporate bribery of foreign government officials and the related enforcement under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as a negative shock, we examine U.S. multinational enterprises’ (MNEs’) strategic use of philanthropic giving to foreign host countries. We predict and find that both focal firms of FCPA enforcement and peer U.S. MNEs operating in the same foreign host country experience significant reputation loss following focal firms’ FCPA violations. Peer firms also face heightened enforcement risk from FCPA authorities after focal firms’ cases. Employing a staggered difference-in-differences design, we further show that while focal firms do not change their philanthropic giving after their FCPA cases, peer MNEs significantly increase such giving to repair the reputation damage due to negative spillover from focal firms, to lower their own FCPA enforcement risk, and to reduce the regulatory penalties and reputation loss from future enforcement actions.

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Weishi and Tsang, Albert and Yu, Danlei Bonnie and Zhao, Jingran, Giving Beyond Borders: Corporate Bribery and Philanthropic Giving Overseas (March 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Ades , R Di Tella
National Champions and Corruption: Some Unpleasant Interventionist Arithmetic
The Economic Journal , volume 107 , p. 1023 - 1043 Posted: 1997
L Ballesteros , C Magelssen
Institutional Disruptions and the Philanthropy of Multinational Firms
Organization Science , volume 33 , p. 1501 - 1522 Posted: 2022
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R M Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, Accounting-Based Valuation Models, and the Prediction of Equity Values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
M Bertrand , M Bombardini , R Fisman , F Trebbi
Tax-Exempt Lobbying: Corporate Philanthropy as a Tool for Political Influence
American Economic Review , volume 110 , p. 2065 - 2102 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
805,600
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies