Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate culture, staggered boards, and managerial entrenchment: Evidence from textual analysis

41 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Kua Wongboonsin

Chulalongkorn University

Viput Ongsakul

NIDA Business School, National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: March 17, 2024

Abstract

Capitalizing on an innovative measure of corporate culture derived from sophisticated machine learning algorithms and textual analysis, we explore how corporate culture is influenced by one of the most controversial corporate governance mechanisms, i.e., staggered boards. Our findings demonstrate that corporate culture is considerably weakened in the presence of a staggered board, consistent with the notion that staggered boards exacerbate managerial entrenchment and lead to more adverse corporate policies and outcomes. Specifically, corporate culture is approximately 7% weaker, as indicated by a decline in the text-based corporate culture score, in firms with a staggered board than those with a unitary board. Furthermore, we show that the negative effect of staggered boards on corporate culture is significantly more pronounced during more uncertain times. Additional analysis validates the results, i.e., propensity score matching, entropy balancing, and instrumental-variable analysis.

Keywords: corporate culture, staggered boards, classified boards, textual analysis, corporate governance, agency theory

JEL Classification: M14, G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Wongboonsin, Kua and Ongsakul, Viput and Jiraporn, Pornsit, Corporate culture, staggered boards, and managerial entrenchment: Evidence from textual analysis (March 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
P Arayakarnkul , P Chatjuthamard , P Jiraporn
Do staggered boards stifle innovation? Evidence from corporate culture, Working paper, Penn State Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
576,053
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies