Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Corporate Governance in China

41 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2024

Fuxiu Jiang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Kenneth Kim

Tongji University - School of Economics and Management; State University of New York (SUNY) - School of Management

Abstract

Understanding corporate governance in China is not limited to simply knowing that it is unique. One should know why and how it is unique, and in both breadth and depth. This paper discusses those why’s and how’s. Our paper’s aim is to describe the “China model” of corporate governance practice and theory. We also discuss papers published the virtual special issue on the theme of corporate governance and corporate social responsibility in China. These studies further our understanding of the China model of corporate governance.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, China

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Fuxiu and Kim, Kenneth, Understanding Corporate Governance in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
RANK
418,259
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies