Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Contextual Pathway to Measuring the Relationship Between Corporations’ Profitability and Social Responsibility of Businesses (SRoB): A Theoretical Equation

5 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2024

Dr. Genese Harris, Finance

Capella University

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

This research article (i.e., scholarly literature) continues prior research into analyzing how beneficial it is for firms to use nonfinancial social responsibility of businesses (SRoB) data as a method for profit generation. The prior research concluded that the extent of the relationship between corporations’ profitability and nonfinancial SRoB data (i.e., environmental, social, and governance [ESG] ratings) cannot be applied to the profitability measurement lens of how firms use their assets, shareholders’ equity, or how well corporations are in containing their operations and overhead costs. The increase or decrease of return on asset (ROA), return on equity (ROE), and net profit margin (NPM), plus the morally-framed nature of ESG ratings, are incomparable with that of ESG ratings. This research article continues the prior recommended research suggestion of involving accounting-based indicators and nonfinancial information by creating an instrument for social return. This article makes a theoretical equation to measure the relationship between corporations’ profitability and SRoB data.

Keywords: financial performance, social responsibility of businesses, ESG, ratings agencies, institutional investors, private wealth management, social returns, morally-framed variables, corporations’ profitability

JEL Classification: D81, F65, G11, G17, G18, G24, G41, H70, L30, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Genese, A Contextual Pathway to Measuring the Relationship Between Corporations’ Profitability and Social Responsibility of Businesses (SRoB): A Theoretical Equation (March 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4763607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
B Cornell , A C Shapiro
Corporate stakeholders and corporate finance
Financial Management , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 1987
K Davis
The case for and against business assumption of social responsibilities
Academy of Management Journal , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 312 - 322 Posted: 1973
A Garg , P K Gupta , P S Bhullar
Is CSR expenditure relevant to the firms in India?
Organizations & Markets in Emerging Economies , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 178 - 197 Posted: 2021
G C Harris , J With Stroman , D Valentine , S Saurage-Altenloh
The relationship between environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings and firms' return as expressed by corporations' profitability Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
RANK
778,745
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies