Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Tax Planning, Illiquidity, and Credit Risks: Evidence from DeFi Lending

44 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2024 Last revised: 2 Jul 2025

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Peiyi Jin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Economics, Students

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Date Written: March 01, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the link between tax-planning-induced illiquidity and credit risks in lending markets. Exploiting an exogenous tax shock imposed on cryptocurrency gains and millions of transactions in Decentralized Finance (DeFi) lending, we document that tax-motivated borrowing strategies to defer capital gains taxes significantly reduce market liquidity. This effect is pronounced among individuals borrowing in stablecoins (a way to monetize returns), those with higher loan-to-value ratios (more risk-averse towards new regulations and typically with larger taxable gains), those with high returns in the underlying asset (representing larger taxable gains), and those holding locked-in assets for over a year (i.e., converting high short-term to lower long-term capital gains tax rates). Using instrumental variable analysis, we provide a plausibly causal relation between tax-planning-induced illiquidity and increased credit risks. A standard deviation increase in tax-induced illiquidity leads to a more than twofold increase in the value of defaulted loans. Our results remain robust across a battery of checks, including analyses of subsamples of highly tax-sensitive borrowers, and align with well-documented tax awareness periods. Overall, our insights are relevant to market participants, assist in estimating revenue losses for tax authorities, and inform emerging policies on the tax treatment of digital assets.

Keywords: DeFi lending, tax planning, illiquidity, credit risk, digital asset regulation

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G23, M41, M48, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Jin, Peiyi and Rabetti, Daniel,

Tax Planning, Illiquidity, and Credit Risks: Evidence from DeFi Lending

(March 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4764605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4764605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
V Acharya , M Crosignani , T Eisert , S Steffen
Zombie lending: Theoretical, international, and historical perspectives
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 2022
M Adalet Mcgowan , A D , V Millot
The walking dead? Zombie firms and productivity performance in oecd countries
Economic Policy , volume 33 , p. 685 - 736 Posted: 2018
A Adams , X Wan , N Zinsmeister
Uniswap V3 TWAP oracles in proof of stake Posted: 2023
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for bombs: The predictability of on-chain transfers for terrorist attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,091
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,846
RANK
46,264
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies