Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Price Informativeness

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper AP No. 1/2024

32 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research

(HKIMR)

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

This research paper is written by Zhiguo He (Stanford University), Wenxi Jiang (The Chinese University of Hong Kong) and Wei Xiong (Princeton University).



We examine how earnings management affects the price informativeness measure in Carpenter, Lu, and Whitelaw (2021), which builds on the cross-sectional correlation between stock valuation and future earnings. We provide an alternative (non-exclusive) interpretation of their finding: in the presence of prevalent earnings management and less sophisticated investors, high-valuation firms could intentionally inflate reported earnings to cater to investors’ expectation. Chinese stocks with high prices tend to have better subsequent earnings but not more payouts to investors. We show further supportive evidence by measuring earnings management with non-recurring gain and loss (NRGL) and using the 2019-2020 reform on delisting rules as a shock to earnings management.

Suggested Citation:

Institute for Monetary and Financial Research, Hong Kong, Earnings Management and Price Informativeness (March 1, 2024). Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper AP No. 1/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4765666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J Zhu
Dissecting the long-term performance of the chinese stock market Posted: 2022
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
J N Carpenter , F Lu , R F Whitelaw
The real value of china's stock market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , issue 3 , p. 679 - 696 Posted: 2021
E F Fama , K R French
Size and book-to-market factors in earnings and returns
The journal of finance , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 155 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
800
RANK
298,527
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies