Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causal Complexity of Green Business Environment with Corporate Social Responsibility in China from a Dynamic Fsqca

33 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Hang Jiang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yongle Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shanshan Zhu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zihang Lv

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Peiyi Kong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Encouraging corporate social (CSR) is essential to realize healthy economic development, effectively improve people’s livelihood, and protect ecological environment. The business environment, a significant external environment, is closely linked to the operation and performance of businesses, which in turn affects CSR. With the panel data of 30 China’s provinces from 2011 to 2020, green business environment evaluation index was established and use dynamic fsQCA to identify the multi-factor configuration path that influences CSR. The study’s conclusions were as follows: (1) CSR is influenced by the interaction of multi-factors in green business environment rather than single one; (2) government regulation, economic development, and openness are the primary causal conditions that lead to high-CSR; and (3) seven configurational paths are found to accomplish high-CSR. Related policy recommendations are proposed, including strengthening government guidance, forcing social responsibility through openness, promoting high-quality economic development, and highlighting the configurational consequences of multi-factors.

Keywords: green business environment, corporate social responsibility, global principal component analysis, dynamic fsQCA, configurational path

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Hang and Wang, Yongle and Zhu, Shanshan and Lv, Zihang and Kong, Peiyi, Causal Complexity of Green Business Environment with Corporate Social Responsibility in China from a Dynamic Fsqca. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4765301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
G A Abbasi , T Sandran , Y Ganesan , M Iranmanesh
Go cashless! Determinants of continuance intention to use E-wallet apps: A hybrid approach using PLS-SEM and fsQCA
Technology in Society Posted: 2022
N Amara , M Rhaiem , N Halilem
Assessing the research efficiency of Canadian scholars in the management field: Evidence from the DEA and fsQCA
Journal of Business Research , volume 115 , p. 296 - 306 Posted: 2020
N Berber , M Aleksić , A Slavić , M Strugar Jelača
The Relationship Between Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Reputation in Serbia
Engineering Economics , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 232 - 245 Posted: 2022
M J Beynon , P Jones , D Ipickernell
Country-level entrepreneurial attitudes and activity through the years: A panel data analysis using fsQCA
Journal of Business Research , volume 115 , p. 443 - 455 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
242
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies