Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Effectiveness and the Cost of Debt: Family and Non-Family Businesses

21 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Hinda GMATI

University of Manouba - Tunis Business Higher School, ESCT

Prof. Imen KHANCHEL

University of Manouba - Tunis Business Higher School, ESCT

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

This study delves into the impact of audit committee effectiveness on firm’s cost of debt for family and non-family firms, drawing on the lens of agency theory and institutional theory. Through rigorous econometric analysis, this study uncovers that audit committee effectiveness does not directly influence cost of debt for full sample. However, control family significantly decreases cost of debt, aligning with agency theory’s emphasis on monitoring mechanisms in mitigating agency conflicts. In addition, we find that audit committee characteristics such as size, independence and meeting frequency do not have a substantial impact in firm’s cost of debt, challenging traditional agency theory assumptions. A comparative analysis between family and non-family firms highlights distinct relationships between audit committee independence and cost of debt, underscoring the nuanced interplay governance structure, family control, and cost of debt through the agency perspective.

Keywords: audit committee effectiveness, cost of debt, family firms, agency theory, governance structure:

JEL Classification: 32

Suggested Citation:

GMATI, Hinda and KHANCHEL, Prof. Imen, Audit Committee Effectiveness and the Cost of Debt: Family and Non-Family Businesses (March 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4765542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 315 - 347 Posted: 2004
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of directors and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
C Bettinelli
Board of directors in family firms: an exploratory study of structure and group process
Family Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 169 Posted: 2010
F Dezoort , D Hermanson , D Archambeault , S Reed
Audit Committee effectiveness: a synthesis of the empirical Audit Committee Literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 21 , p. 38 - 75 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
RANK
687,436
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies