Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG controversies, corporate governance, and the market for corporate control

56 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Sirimon Treepongkaruna

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Khine Kyaw

NTNU Business School

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: March 19, 2024

Abstract

Capitalizing on a unique measure of takeover vulnerability principally based on the staggered passage of state legislation, we examine how environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) controversies are influenced by the takeover market, which is widely regarded as a crucial instrument of external governance. This paper is the first to investigate how ESG controversies are influenced by the market for corporate control. The sample consists of unbalanced panel data of 6,236 firm-year observations from 2002 through 2014. Firm level fixed-effects regression forms the baseline analysis. To address potential endogeneity, we estimate Propensity Score Matching (PSM) and Instrumental Variable (IV) analyses. Further, we employ entropy balancing approach to address the issue of observable selection. The results show that the disciplinary mechanism associated with the takeover market compels managers to take actions that benefit shareholders and thus avoiding ESG controversies. An increase in takeover susceptibility by one standard deviation results in a 10.12% decline in controversial activities. Furthermore, we demonstrated a significant drop in firm profitability and a substantial increase in firm risk in response to ESG controversies. The findings have implications for practitioners and regulators.

Keywords: ESG, corporate social responsibility, ESG controversies, takeovers, corporate governance, market for corporate control

JEL Classification: M14, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Treepongkaruna, Sirimon and Kyaw, Khine and Jiraporn, Pornsit, ESG controversies, corporate governance, and the market for corporate control (March 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4765408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
C A Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , S Stoyanov
Do staggered boards harm shareholders
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 123 , issue 2 , p. 432 - 439 Posted: 2017
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board Composition: Balancing Family Influence in S&P 500 Firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
RANK
708,207
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies