Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-sector Female Representation and Firms' Social Policies*

70 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024

Lindsey A. Gallo

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Heidi A. Packard

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Madeline Thompson

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

Despite calls for increased representation, women are broadly underrepresented in leadership roles in both government and business-two sectors that are increasingly asked to work together to address complex social problems. Research across a range of social science fields suggests that gender representation is an important determinant of coordination across parties. Our study exploits the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic to test whether cross-sector female representation has implications for the degree to which governmental priorities are reflected in firms' policies. Analyzing points of interest foot traffic data from SafeGraph, we find robust evidence that firms headquartered in or near cities with female mayors implemented more "stayat-home"-focused responses, but only when there was sufficient female representation amongst firm leaders. Results from a complementary analysis of the effect of cross-sector female representation on corporate philanthropy in response to natural disasters corroborate our main findings. Overall, our results extend prior evidence on the gender dynamics of leadership efficacy to the cross-sector setting and suggest that female representation has important implications for both the decision-making processes of public companies and social policy more broadly.

Keywords: Corporate governance, female representation, political influence, corporate social responsibility, COVID-19 JEL Classification H70, D83, I18, M40, G40

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gallo, Lindsey A. and Packard, Heidi A. and Thompson, Madeline, Cross-sector Female Representation and Firms' Social Policies* (March 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
517,938
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies