Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation interventions impact on board diversity

55 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Mar 2025

Quynh Anh Do

Swansea University - School of Management

David Newton

University of Bath

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: December 20, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the influence of regulatory interventions and board diversity on stock performance volatility, firm return, and innovation outputs. To achieve that, we construct an index to gauge the demographic diversity of board composition. We uncover strong evidence that external interventions have dynamically impacted those relationships. Using the difference-in- difference approach, we document strong evidence that the departure of non-traditional directors from the board in the post-SOX era results in a smaller number of patents registered, higher firm returns, and lower stock volatility. This effect is concentrated in firms that are larger in size on average, have more (independent) directors sitting on the board, and invest more in capital expenditure.

Keywords: Board diversity, Trade-off framework, Regulatory intervention, Firm return, Stock volatility, Innovation

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, G41, O32

Suggested Citation:

Do, Quynh Anh and Newton, David and Gounopoulos, Dimitrios, Regulation interventions impact on board diversity (December 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful ceos and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R B Adams , T Kirchmaier
Barriers to boardrooms Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies