Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Outcome Effectiveness of the Global Reporting Initiative Transitions

Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal,14(6),1101-1125. DOI: 10.1108/SAMPJ-07-2022-0365.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 21 Mar 2024

Ramona Zharfpeykan

University of Auckland Business School

Chris Akroyd

University of Canterbury - Dept of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Purpose
This paper aims to evaluate the outcome effectiveness of the global reporting initiatives (GRI) transitions by understanding how companies have responded to the changes from G3.1 to G4 and finally to the GRI Standards.

Design/methodology/approach
A quality disclosure score is developed that incorporates assessments of both the quality of disclosures and the materiality of Australian companies. To analyse materiality, survey data were collected from 187 companies. Disclosure scores are based on a content analysis of the sustainability reports of 12 mining and metals companies and 12 financial services companies that used the GRI Standards from 2011 to 2019 (a total of 213 reports).

Findings
The study found that the GRI transitions have not led to companies improving the quality of their disclosures on areas considered important for them to achieve their social and environmental goals. Instead, the companies tended to use a greenwashing strategy, where the quality of disclosure of material issues declined or fluctuated over time.

Practical implications
From a practical perspective, the disclosure score developed in this paper enables managers of companies to recognize a threshold of completeness and to summarize the areas that are not materially relevant to their business.

Social implications
The results are potentially helpful for investors, shareholders and other stakeholders, enabling them to better understand sustainability reports.

Originality/value
This study contributes to the body of research in sustainability reporting by providing evidence on the outcome effectiveness of the latest updates in the GRI framework.
Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-07-2022-0365

Keywords: Global reporting initiative framework, disclosure, sustainability report, survey, greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Zharfpeykan, Ramona and Akroyd, Chris, Evaluating the Outcome Effectiveness of the Global Reporting Initiative Transitions ( 2023). Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal,14(6),1101-1125. DOI: 10.1108/SAMPJ-07-2022-0365. , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies