Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Be Social, Be Innovative: CEO Network Centrality and Firm Innovation

62 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Yimeng Zhang

Kyoto University

Maho Shiraishi

The University of Kitakyusyu

Go Yano

Kyoto University

There are 4 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between firm innovation and CEO network centrality, which captures the CEO’s relative position in a massive alumni network consisting of outside senior executives and directors. We present evidence that firms with high-centrality CEOs are generally more likely to engage in more and intensively R&D activities. Further analysis suggests that CEO connectedness may maximize the value of enhancing innovation input in firms with no preferential governmental accreditation, geographically isolated firms, financially performance-pressured firms, firms with less transparency, and firms with well-connected non-CEO executives and directors. To explain such an effect, we explore a possible economic mechanism and show that personal connections help firms attract more external debt financing by maintaining trust and reputation in the network. Taken together, our findings suggest that firm innovation can be influenced by CEOs’ social network position, with high-centrality CEOs obtaining valuable information and recourses to encourage firm innovation input.

Keywords: managerial network, innovation, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yimeng and Shiraishi, Maho and Yano, Go, Be Social, Be Innovative: CEO Network Centrality and Firm Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
RANK
324,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies