Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPOs and Foreign Tax Structures

51 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 30 Apr 2025

Christine Dobridge

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Andrew Whitten

U.S. Department of the Treasury - Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

Date Written: April 20, 2025

Abstract

Does going public affect the amount and type of corporate international tax planning? Using a panel of U.S. corporate tax return data from 2004 to 2018, we show that IPO completion is associated with the rapid implementation of multinational foreign tax structures central to the current international tax policy debate. Specifically, within three years after filing for an IPO, firms (i) expand their presence in low-tax jurisdictions, (ii) enter into cross-border agreements that accompany intangible asset transfers to foreign subsidiaries, and (iii) increase their level of foreign related-party payments. The effects are strongest among firms with strong capital market pressure to hit post-IPO earnings targets, firms with high R&D spending prior to the IPO, and firms with limited ability to use net operating loss carryforwards. We contribute to the nascent literature studying tax implications of IPOs by documenting the types and timing of specific tax strategies that enable public firms to remain lightly taxed in the post-IPO period. 

Keywords: Initial public offering (IPO), tax planning, multinational tax

JEL Classification: D12, E21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Dobridge, Christine and Lester, Rebecca and Whitten, Andrew, IPOs and Foreign Tax Structures (April 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
422,747
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies