Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Traditional Director Departure and Earning Management

FEB-RN Research Paper No. 05/2024

46 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Quynh Anh Do

Swansea University - School of Management

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

David Newton

University of Bath

Date Written: March 20, 2021

Abstract

It is hypothesized that the practice of earnings management is systematically related to the strength of internal corporate governance mechanisms, including the board of directors, the audit committee, the internal audit function and the choice of the external auditor. However, the role of non-traditional directors has not yet been positioned in the determinants of earnings management literature. This study aims to fill in the gap of effects of corporate governance toward earning managements regarding the non-traditional director character. Using panel data on U.S public firms, we document a negative effect of non-traditional director departure on earning management. We establish causality of non-traditional director departure on earnings management and real earning management using difference-in-difference approach that exploits an exogenous shock to board composition, namely, the mandate of a majority of outside directors on company boards by NYSE and NASDAQ in response to the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002.

Keywords: Earning Management, Director Departure, Board Diversity

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Do, Quynh Anh and Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Newton, David, Non-Traditional Director Departure and Earning Management (March 20, 2021). FEB-RN Research Paper No. 05/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4766517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4766517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
K J Arrow , E S Maskin
The nature of preference and choice. Social choice and individual values Posted: 1951
T G Arun , Y E Almahrog , Z A Aribi
Female directors and earnings management: Evidence from uk companies
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 39 , p. 137 - 146 Posted: 2015
A Barua , L F Davidson , D V Rama , S Thiruvadi
Cfo gender and accruals quality
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
RANK
411,549
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance, Economics & Banking (FEB-RN) Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies