Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Media Sentiment Influence the Adjustment of the Level of Tax Avoidance?

61 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Chia-Hsiang Weng

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We argue that the tone of media coverage, i.e., media sentiment, shapes firms’ publicity, imposing extra costs on managers if they fail to implement efficient tax planning. Supporting our argument, we find that negative media sentiment leads to increases (decreases) in three-year cash effective tax rates (CETRs) for firms whose CETRs are below (above) the target levels. This effect is particularly pronounced for firms highly sensitive to reputation costs, such as those with limited positive press coverage, relatively young CEOs, and negative news reports regarding tax avoidance. However, the effect is insignificant for firms that face heightened scrutiny from tax authorities, suggesting that media sentiment mainly influences tax planning via the reputation costs mechanism. We also find that negative media sentiment prompts firms with CETRs below the target to reduce tax-haven usage but doesn't drive firms above the target to use more tax-haven strategies.

Keywords: tax planning, Optimal Tax Avoidance, Media Sentiment, Role of the Media, Reputation Cost

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Weng, Chia-Hsiang, How Does Media Sentiment Influence the Adjustment of the Level of Tax Avoidance?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4767298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor Has it: Sensationalism in Financial Media , volume 28 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies