Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Global Value Chain Reshapes the Relationship between Intellectual Property Rights Protection and Cross-Border M&A Activity?

47 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024

jinjuan Yang

Shanghai International Studies University

Xue Chen

Shenzhen University

Abstract

Studies have indicated that Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) protection as a significant location advantage would affect enterprise cross-border investment decisions. The impact of IPR protection on inbound mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity may vary significantly depending on the acquirer's position in the global value chain (GVC). Based on the cross-border M&As from China between 2007 and 2018, we found that the acquirer's GVC position conditions the relationship of IPR protection in the target country and cross-border M&A activities. The empirical evidence shows that IPR protection in the target country will make acquisitions more attractive when the acquirers are far downstream in the global value chain. There is a greater impact when the acquirer and target have high levels of information asymmetry, the target possesses an abundance of intellectual property, or the target firm is located in a non-OECD country. Moreover, investors are not optimistic about cross-border acquisitions when IPR protection in the target country are high, but the acquirer's position as a GVC will offset their concerns about acquiring knowledge under strict IPR protections.

Keywords: Intellectual property rights protection, cross-border M&As, global value chain position, Information asymmetry, intellectual assets

Suggested Citation:

Yang, jinjuan and chen, xue, How Global Value Chain Reshapes the Relationship between Intellectual Property Rights Protection and Cross-Border M&A Activity?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4768275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4768275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Alimov , M S Officer
Intellectual property rights and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 360 - 377 Posted: 2017
S H Ang , M H Benischke , J P Doh
The interactions of institutions on foreign market entry mode
Strategic Management Journal , volume 36 , p. 1536 - 1553 Posted: 2015
P Antràs , D Chor , T Fally , R Hillberry
Measuring the Upstreamness of Production and Trade Flows
American Economic Review , volume 102 , p. 412 - 416 Posted: 2012
A Ascani , R Crescenzi , S Iammarino
Economic Institutions and the Location Strategies of European Multinationals in their Geographic Neighborhood
Economic Geography , volume 92 , p. 401 - 429 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
RANK
889,053
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies