Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Capitalism and Sustainability: Redefining Corporate Governance and Balancing Stakeholder Interests

11 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Manisha Sharma

Auro University

Date Written: March 23, 2024

Abstract

The traditional model of shareholder primacy in corporate governance, emphasizing profit maximization for shareholders above all else, is facing significant challenges. Stakeholder capitalism emerges as an alternative, advocating for businesses to consider the interests of a broader spectrum of stakeholders, including employees, customers, communities, and the environment. This article explores the intricacies of stakeholder capitalism. As it is a multifaceted idea it generally refers to a business philosophy that encourages companies to consider the needs and interests of their various stakeholders, including internal as well as external stakeholders. The paper also explores the impact of stakeholder capitalism on corporate governance including several key areas such as board composition and diversity, executive compensation, stakeholder engagement, ESG factors etc. Further the paper deals with the legal considerations involved in balancing the interests of diverse stakeholders sustainably. Finally, it focuses on the critical appreciation along with certain opportunities and benefits.

Keywords: Corporate governance, ESG factors, Legal framework, Stakeholder capitalism, Stakeholder interests, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Manisha, Stakeholder Capitalism and Sustainability: Redefining Corporate Governance and Balancing Stakeholder Interests (March 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4769918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4769918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Bakan
Stakeholder capitalism: A critical review
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2023
J B Barney
Looking inside for competitive advantage: The resource-based view of the firm
Strategic Management Journal , volume 16 , issue 8 , p. 109 - 139 Posted: 1995
L A Bebchuk
The myth of shareholder primacy
Harvard Law Review , volume 132 , issue 8 , p. 2277 - 2370 Posted: 2019
L Bini , M Ferrero
Greenwashing: Theoretical perspectives and research directions
Statement on the purpose of a corporation , volume 402 Posted: 2019-08-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
369,949
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies