Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of bank income smoothing: Cross-country evidence from EEA banks during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis

69 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Małgorzata Olszak

University of Warsaw - Faculty of Management

Christophe J. Godlewski

University of Strasbourg - Faculty of Law and Business; EM Strasbourg Business School; LaRGE Research Center

Gracjan Bachurewicz

University of Warsaw - Faculty of Management

Date Written: March 23, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates income-smoothing through loan-loss provisions among European Economic Area banks, with a focus on the Covid-19 crisis. Results indicate a pandemic-induced rise in income-smoothing, particularly in countries receiving substantial liquidity support from fiscal schemes and the European Central Bank’s Pandemic Emergency Purchase Program. This trend is mitigated in nations with robust governance and financial openness. Market structure and financial development, while not affecting income-smoothing, influence loan-loss provision levels. Macroprudential vulnerabilities also play a role, as a stricter macroprudential oversight correlates with reduced earnings management via loan-loss provisions. Notably, banks in countries with heightened pre-crisis countercyclical buffers did not engage in income-smoothing during the pandemic, but a zero-buffer rate was associated with a higher degree of income-smoothing. The findings underscore the significance of macroprudential policies in curbing opportunistic financial reporting during economic downturns.

Keywords: loan-loss provisions, income-smoothing, Covid-19 crisis, liquidity support, governance, finance and macroprudential vulnerabilities

JEL Classification: E44, E58, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Olszak, Małgorzata and Godlewski, Christophe J. and Bachurewicz, Gracjan, Determinants of bank income smoothing: Cross-country evidence from EEA banks during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis (March 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770333 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
V V Acharya , L Borchert , M Jager , S Steffen
Kicking the Can down the Road: Government Interventions in the European Banking Sector
Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 4090 - 4131 Posted: 2021
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signaling by Australian banks
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
D Bayazitova , A Shivdasani
Assessing TARP
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 377 - 407 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
RANK
747,544
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies