Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Political Party in Curtailing Opportunistic Insider Sales: Evidence from China

12 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Xinhui Huang

University of Maine

Augustine Tarkom

Texas State University

Lukai Yang

Texas A&M International University

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

The unique political system in shaping socio-economic policies in China calls for a detailed exploration of its precise effect on corporate governance. Using the mandatory establishment of a Chinese Communist Party (CCP) branch after 2018 as an exogenous shock, we find that the establishment of a CCP organization reduces opportunistic insider sales. Our paper contributes to the emerging literature on the role government plays in the business environment.

Keywords: Chinese Communist Party, opportunistic insider sales, corporate governance, shareholder protection

JEL Classification: G30, G38, P34

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xinhui and Tarkom, Augustine and Yang, Lukai, The Role of Political Party in Curtailing Opportunistic Insider Sales: Evidence from China (March 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Mehmet E Akbulut , Erdem Ucar
Policy Risk and Insider Trading
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 72 , p. 341 - 353 Posted: 2023
Xiaogang Bi
The Communist Party Committee and Corporate Takeovers
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 78 Posted: 2021
M B Billings , M C Cedergren
Strategic silence, insider selling and litigation risk
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 2-3 , p. 119 - 142 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
380
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies