Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attention-Grabbing ESG: Do Investors Extract Value-Relevant ESG Information from Social Media?

34 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024

Yoshitaka Tanaka

Fukuoka University

Shunsuke Managi

Kyushu University

Abstract

This study investigates whether the market recognizes the financial significance of socially impactful corporate actions. We analyze data showing reactions on social networking sites (SNSs) to ESG news in the United States since 2010. Our results reveal that attention-grabbing ESG information on SNSs contains information that has a strong relationship with corporate value. The event study demonstrates that stock returns exhibit a statistically significant response to financially material ESG events that garner substantial attention on SNS. While our findings do not offer definitive evidence regarding ESG events that are socially significant but not directly related to value, we note significant market responses to positive and non-material events in certain instances. This pattern is more pronounced in companies with limited ESG disclosures. Moreover, our regression analysis suggests that although the link between materiality and stock returns is moderate, the association with SNS reactions is substantial. This indicates that the market perceives SNS reactions to ESG events as informative regarding corporate value.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, Materiality, social media, Market Efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Tanaka, Yoshitaka and Managi, Shunsuke, Attention-Grabbing ESG: Do Investors Extract Value-Relevant ESG Information from Social Media?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , issue 2 , p. 642 - 664 Posted: 2022
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The review of financial studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter help predict firm-level earnings and stock returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
L Becchetti , D Cucinelli , F Ielasi , M Rossolini
Corporate social irresponsibility: The relationship between ESG misconduct and the cost of equity
International Review of Financial Analysis Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
505,214
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies