Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of CEO Inside Debt: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk

65 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024 Last revised: 6 Aug 2025

Amir Gholami

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Ahmed Elnahas

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Date Written: February 01, 2023

Abstract

Despite being thought of as a governance mechanism, CEO inside debt seems to distort firms’ information environment. Our results indicate that CEO inside debt creates an incentive for managers to hoard bad news and to smooth earnings, leading to increasing stock price crash risk. Our results are robust after addressing endogeneity using the instrumental variable (IV) approach and Oster’s omitted variable diagnostic test, and selection bias using the propensity score matching (PSM) and Entropy balancing (EB) approaches. The results are stronger for firms that are financially un-distressed, operate in less competitive industries, have lower institutional ownership, and have higher information asymmetry. Further, the results are robust to controlling for CSR, local religiosity, tax avoidance, and CEO as well as local political ideology.

Keywords: CEO inside debt, Executive compensation, Stock price crash risk, Bad news hoarding.

Suggested Citation:

Gholami, Amir and Elnahas, Ahmed, The Dark Side of CEO Inside Debt: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk (February 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel Around the World? Evidence From Institutional Investors
Journal Of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
H An , T Zhang
Stock Price Synchronicity, Crash Risk, And Institutional Investors
Journal Of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
490,025
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies