Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Etfs Ownership and Firms’ Delisting

68 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024

Izidin El Kalak

Alfaisal University

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Onur Kemal Tosun

Cardiff Business School - Accounting and Finance Section

Abstract

This study explores if exchange-traded funds (ETFs) affect the delisting probabilities of their constituent firms. We document that ETFs ownership positively affects the probability of firms’ delisting due to M&A and negatively affects the probability of firms’ delisting for involuntary or voluntary reasons. The results hold using several robustness tests and after addressing endogeneity concerns. Using mediation analysis, we find that the relationship is driven by the improved corporate governance, through voice, that is associated with ETFs ownership, which is consistent with managerial agency theory.

Keywords: Exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Delisting, Firm survival, Hazard model

Suggested Citation:

El Kalak, Izidin and Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Tosun, Onur Kemal, Etfs Ownership and Firms’ Delisting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y An , M Benetton , Y Song
Index Provides: Whales behind the scenes of ETFs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 149 , p. 407 - 433 Posted: 2023
S Antill
Do the right firms survive bankruptcy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 523 - 546 Posted: 2022
C Antoniou , F Weikai Li , X Liu , A Subrahmanyam , C Sun
Exchange-Traded Funds and real investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , p. 1043 - 1093 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,989
RANK
521,283
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies