Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact Of Local Political Corruption on Firms’ Narrative R&D Disclosures

49 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024

Rui Huang

Australian Government Department of Industry, Science, and Resources

Xuejun Jiang

Newcastle University

Louise Yi Lu

Australian National University

Yangxin Yu

City University of Hong Kong

Abstract

This study examines the relation between U.S. local political corruption and firms’ narrative research and development (R&D) disclosures. Using the number of regional corruption convictions of public officials around firms’ headquarters to capture local political corruption, we find that firms in more corrupt areas reduce not only the number of R&D sentences in their 10-K filings but also the amount of numerical information and forward-looking information contained in these R&D sentences. These results are robust to the use of three alternative measures of local political corruption and the use of staggered adoption of anti-corruption laws as plausible exogenous shocks. Furthermore, we observe that these results are more pronounced for firms with concentrated operations in their headquarter states and firms with R&D activities that are more influenced by government policy. Additionally, we find that local political corruption increases the delay in firms’ patent disclosures with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and increases their overall proprietary disclosures using redaction in 10-K filings. Overall, our study suggests that local corruption is detrimental to firms’ narrative R&D disclosures.

Keywords: political corruption, narrative R&D disclosures, corporate voluntary disclosures, rent-seeking

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rui and Jiang, Xuejun and Lu, Louise Yi and Yu, Yangxin, The Impact Of Local Political Corruption on Firms’ Narrative R&D Disclosures. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , C Mcclellan
Corruption and firm tax evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 124 , p. 146 - 163 Posted: 2016
J E Alt , D D Lassen
The political economy of institutions and corruption in American states
Journal of Theoretical Politics , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 365 Posted: 2003
M I Azim , R Kluvers
Resisting corruption in Grameen bank
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 156 , issue 3 , p. 591 - 604 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
643
RANK
545,411
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies