Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Voluntary and Mandatory CSR Disclosure Credible? Evidence from Insider Trading

63 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2024

Mochen Ma

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Guan-Ying Huang

National Chung Cheng University

Abstract

This study examines the impact of both voluntary and mandatory Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosures on insider trading profitability. The study demonstrates that firms with voluntary CSR disclosures will experience a reduction in insider trading profitability, whereas those with mandatory CSR disclosures will show an increase in insider trading profitability. Additionally, firms choosing voluntary CSR disclosure will exhibit lower instances of information trading, reduced analysts' forecast errors, heightened analyst coverage, and more robust internal controls compared to those relying solely on mandatory CSR disclosure. Overall, the findings of this study suggest that firms with voluntary CSR disclosures provide a more credible CSR report than those with mandatory CSR disclosure, which could serve as a pivotal determinant of insider performance.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR), voluntary disclosure, Mandatory Disclosure, disclosure credibility, insider trading profitability

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mochen and Huang, Guan-Ying, Is Voluntary and Mandatory CSR Disclosure Credible? Evidence from Insider Trading. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4770544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4770544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: an analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Ahmed Sweileh Tarkh
Mandatory Disclosure of Sustainability Versus Voluntary Disclosure in the Iraqi Environment
International Journal of Professional Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 240 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
601,090
1 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies