Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Gambits and Business Judgment in In/Out-Sourcing Tactics

American Business Law Journal, 2025, vol. 62, 191–216; Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4771886.

45 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Maria Lucia Passador

Bocconi University - Department of Law; Stanford University - Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF) Fellow; European Banking Institute; Harvard University - Harvard Law School

Date Written: March 21, 2024

Abstract

This article investigates the burgeoning trend of proceduralization within corporate law, with a spotlight on the board of directors. It delves into the tension between nurturing skill diversity within the board and outsourcing specific functions, and the related paradoxical challenge: while external consultants and specialized directors enhance expertise and decision-making, they may also inadvertently expose directors to greater legal risks.

Drawing on a comprehensive review of existing literature and relevant case law, the paper examines the intricate dilemmas corporations face when choosing between specialized directors and external consultants, particularly in light of the business judgment rule. It points out the paradox where operations without consultancy costs, ostensibly perceived as financially advantageous, might expose directors to liability, while those with consultancy expenses often avoid scrutiny. Also, it considers risk management and accountability in today’s environment, where reliance on external experts is increasing.

Furthermore, the piece identifies two pivotal cross-sectoral shifts: the rising influence of diverse stakeholder cohorts and the evolving role of consultancy firms as board service providers à la Bainbridge.

This paper posits that over-reliance on external expertise may turn boards into “theatre boards,” where the performative aspects of governance overshadow substantive decision-making, especially when conflicts of interest may arise.

It addresses the question of which core board competencies of the board are non-delegable, examining the balance between delegation and ensuring reliable information from external advisors. While consultants can improve decision-making, the board must retain strategic oversight and accountability.

To address these challenges, the paper calls for a robust framework that balances external expertise with safeguarding governance functions. This includes enhancing the board’s internal capabilities, establishing guidelines on consultant reliance, ensuring that directors are equipped to critically assess external input, establishing guidelines on consultant reliance, and fostering a culture of critical engagement and board accountability.

Keywords: proceduralization, theatre boards, board diversity, outsourcing, business judgment rule. shareholder interest, risk management, corporate accountability, consultancy firms, board service providers, fiduciary duties

JEL Classification: G3, G32, G34, K2, K22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Passador, Maria Lucia, Governance Gambits and Business Judgment in In/Out-Sourcing Tactics (March 21, 2024). American Business Law Journal, 2025, vol. 62, 191–216; Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4771886., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4771886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4771886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
250,789
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies