Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Regulations and Corporate Cash Holdings

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2024 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Wenrui Chen

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies - School of Accounting

Yue Cao

Hunan University - Business School

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Diandian Ma

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

The impact of environmental regulations on corporate performance and decisions has attracted significant attention from academics, practitioners and policymakers. We extend this line of research to examine the impact of regional environmental regulations on firms’ cash holdings. We find that environmental regulations motivate firms to increase cash holdings. Further analyses reveal that firms increase cash holdings due to having less debt financing, decreased sales and more green innovation, all caused by environmental regulations. Under regulatory pressure, firms operating in more competitive industries, facing more financial constraints, having more environmental expenditure and belonging to the secondary sector tend to hold more cash than other firms, while firms with better CSR performance do not maintain as high cash holdings as their counterparts. We further demonstrate that increased cash holdings caused by the imposition of environmental regulations increase firm value.

Keywords: Environmental regulations, Climate regulatory risks, Corporate cash holdings, Precautionary motive, China

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wenrui and Cao, Yue and Dong, Yizhe and Ma, Diandian, Environmental Regulations and Corporate Cash Holdings (March 20, 2024). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4771106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4771106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
V Acharya , R Engle , M Richardson
Capital shortfall: A new approach to ranking and regulating systemic risks
American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 64 Posted: 2012
A R Admati , P M Demarzo , M F Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
The leverage ratchet effect
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
H Almeida , M Campello , I Cunha , M S Weisbach
Corporate liquidity management: A conceptual framework and survey
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 162 Posted: 2014
S Ambec , P Barla
A theoretical foundation of the Porter hypothesis
Economics Letters , volume 75 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 360 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
521,283
3 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies