Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Failed Acquisition Offers: The Impact of Failure Reasons on Target Valuation

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

21 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Omri Even-Tov

Haas School of Business - UC Berkeley

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Alex Nekrasov

University of Illinois Chicago

Jean (Jieyin) Zeng

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

Using a large hand-collected sample of 1,246 failed acquisition offers from 1979 to 2016, we examine the effects of failure reasons on the revaluation of target firms. We find a negative revaluation of -16% for failures not caused by target rejection, suggesting exposure of adverse information about the target’s economic conditions. Conversely, targets declining offers show a positive revaluation of +7%, indicating target management’s private information about the firm’s superior prospects. These revaluation effects are stronger for hard-to-value targets, consistent with failure reasons revealing more information when there is greater uncertainty about the target’s value.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions; Failed offers; Target valuation; Failure reasons

JEL Classification: G10; G30; G34; M10; M20; M40

Suggested Citation:

Even-Tov, Omri and Lourie, Ben and Nekrasov, Alexander and Zeng, Jean, Failed Acquisition Offers: The Impact of Failure Reasons on Target Valuation (March 18, 2024). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4772013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
564,093
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies