Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Firms’ Corporate Social Responsibility Reduce Crime?

46 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2024

Chenwei Sun

McMaster University

Justin Yiqiang Jin

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Khalid Nainar

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Abstract

This study examines the impact of firms’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) on state crime rates in the U.S. Our research bolsters the expanding work under the Law and Political Economy Project (https://lpeproject.org/) out of Yale University and Economics of Crime Working Group of National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). Our empirical results show that states with domiciled firms having better CSR performance exhibit significantly lower crime rates. This lower crime incidence is driven by the environmental, social, and governance dimensions of CSR. Our study is the first to document the societal impact of CSR by analyzing state crime rates, and we conclude that CSR activities have positive externalities on society.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG), Crime Incidence, Externalities

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Chenwei and Jin, Justin Y. and Nainar, S. M. Khalid and Lobo, Gerald J., Does Firms’ Corporate Social Responsibility Reduce Crime?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4772109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4772109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
J B Allen
The company town in the American West Posted: 1966
M A Andresen
Unemployment, GDP, and crime: The importance of multiple measurements of the economy
Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2015
J Avina
Public-private partnerships in the fight against crime: an emerging frontier in corporate social responsibility
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 291 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
728
RANK
552,669
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies