Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of accounting discretion in the investment-financing relationship: Evidence from a structural model

52 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

George E. Batta

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

A fundamental question is whether incentives to meet or beat earnings expectations impact corporate decisions. We develop a dynamic model of a manager making joint decisions over investment, financing, and accounting discretion. We estimate this model, identifying earnings management parameters considering the intertemporal tradeoffs managers face when addressing these choices. We find that firms overinvest to accommodate earnings management and underutilize debt, hoarding cash, to preserve flexibility when profitable opportunities arise. The corporate finance literature finds that individual firm investment and debt issuance exhibit coincident spikes in the data but has difficulty rationalizing this fact. We find that a model that allows for accounting discretion better fits these spikes in the data than a model that does not. Our paper answers the call in the literature for empirical models accounting for the tensions between accounting discretion and investment and financing decisions.

Keywords: earnings management, investment, financing, accounting discretion

JEL Classification: M41, G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Batta, George E. and Ruchti, Thomas, The role of accounting discretion in the investment-financing relationship: Evidence from a structural model (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4772141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4772141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
W R Baber , S.-H Kang , Y Li
Modeling discretionary accrual reversal and the balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1189 - 1212 Posted: 2011
K Balakrishnan , J E Core , R S Verdi
The relation between reporting quality and financing and investment: Evidence from changes in financing capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
614,231
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies