Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Technology Adoption and Loan Loss Recognition

44 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 8 May 2024

Yuan Sun

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Feng Tian

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Sean Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Nan Yang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

This study finds that the level of information technology (IT) adoption in banks is positively related to loan loss provision (LLP) timeliness. This relation is validated by our instrumental variable analysis, and moreover, this relation is more pronounced for banks with more geographically dispersed branches and for banks with a high level of digital human capital. A high level of digital human capital suggests that a significant proportion of staff is capable of using IT analytical tools to assess bank loan credit risk. We further find that the IT adoption level of banks is positively associated with the likelihood of employing credit risk models. We also find that banks’ IT adoption level is positively related to our proxies for banks’ internal information environment quality. As a result, we further find that the IT adoption levels of banks are negatively associated with audit fees, suggesting that banks’ IT adoption facilitates auditors' work.

Keywords: loan loss provision timeliness, IT adoption, digital human capital, internal information environment

JEL Classification: O3, G21, G32, M41, D82, J24, M15

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Yuan and Tian, Feng and Xu, Sean and Yang, Nan, Information Technology Adoption and Loan Loss Recognition (March 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4772874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4772874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
J L Abernathy , J P Klaus , L Le , A Masli
Does greater access to employees with information technology capability improve financial reporting quality? Contemporary Accounting Research (forthcoming) Posted: 2023
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
254,445
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies