Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk and Executive Excess Perk Consumption: Evidence from China

17 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Bin Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yifan xu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yueping Du

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiangqian Lu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We construct a city-level climate risk indicator to measure the degree of damage from climate-related natural disasters and find that climate risk has a positive association with executive excess perks consumption, these patterns are not likely to be driven in different identification strategies. We further find that this positive nexus is (a) mitigated by analysts’ attention and media coverage, (b) weakened in firms with high degree of digital adoption and high financing constraints, and (c) strengthened in firms with high government subsidies. Overall, our findings provide important and timely implications for regulators and firm managers.

Keywords: Climate risk, executive excess perks consumption, agency theory, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bin and xu, Yifan and Du, Yueping and Lu, Xiangqian, Climate Risk and Executive Excess Perk Consumption: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
W Chen , X Liu , Y , Hong
Two heads better than one? Strategic alliance and firms excess cash holdings
Finance Research Letters , volume 52 Posted: 2023
D Chen , O Z Li , S Liang
Perk consumption as a suboptimal outcome under pay regulations
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 373 - 399 Posted: 2016
R Ding , M Z Liu , T T Wang , Z Y Wu
The impact of climate risk on earnings management: International evidence
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
M Donadelli , M Jüppner , A Paradiso , M Ghisletti
Tornado activity, house prices, and. stock returns
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 52 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
185
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies