Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Financial Performance and Distress Risk in a Highly Mobile Workforce

15 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Yang Gao

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Economics

Henry Leung

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ruiqi Mao

University of Sussex Business School; University of Sydney Business School

Abstract

Over the 2002-2015 period, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) engagement is found to be positively (negatively) associated with firm financial performance (distress risk). Further, these effects are more pronounced in companies with highly mobile workforce, which suggests that employees play an essential role in CSR investment policy decision-making. Our results support the view that high labour mobility may discipline managers against making improper CSR investments, thereby alleviating agency problems related to CSR engagement. Overall, we show that CSR engagement is beneficial to firms and promotes CSR-related stakeholder theory.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Performance, Firm Distress Risk, Labor Mobility

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Yang and Leung, Henry and Mao, Ruiqi, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Financial Performance and Distress Risk in a Highly Mobile Workforce. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accounting-based bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , issue 4 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies