Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Era Leadership: Unveiling Strategies and Challenges in Responsible Innovation

35 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Filomena Buonocore

University Parthenope of Naples

Maria Carmela Annosi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Davide de Gennaro

University of Naples Parthenope

Filomena Riemma

University of Naples Parthenope

Abstract

This study explores the intersection of digital transformation and social change in business, emphasizing the role of CEOs and founders in integrating technology and societal objectives. It delves into the challenges, strategies, and experiences of business leaders, using in-depth interviews with CEOs and founders from diverse sectors. The research reveals the complexities of implementing responsible innovation, balancing profit and societal good, and the evolving dynamics of business leadership in the digital era. It contributes actionable insights for practitioners and policymakers, enhancing academic understanding of social innovation and digital transformation in business.

Keywords: Responsible innovation, Digital Transformation, Social change, Business leadership, corporate social responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Buonocore, Filomena and Annosi, Maria Carmela and de Gennaro, Davide and Riemma, Filomena, Digital Era Leadership: Unveiling Strategies and Challenges in Responsible Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R Adams , S Jeanrenaud , J Bessant , D Denyer , P Overy
Sustainability-oriented innovation: A systematic review
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 180 - 205 Posted: 2016
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
G Barauskaite , D Streimikiene
Corporate social responsibility and financial performance of companies: The puzzle of concepts, definitions and assessment methods
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 278 - 287 Posted: 2021
J B Barney , A M Arikan
The resource-based view: origins and implications , p. 123 - 182 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
682,509
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies