Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management at Initial Public Offerings: Does Directors’ Prior Experience Matter?

51 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Daniel Bryan

University of Washington Tacoma

Zhiyan Cao

University of Washington Tacoma

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Brandon Fleming

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We examine the relation between directors’ prior experience of earnings management (EM) and firms’ financial reporting in the setting of initial public offerings (IPOs). We show that an IPO firm reports higher discretionary accruals and is more likely to have an accounting misstatement in the pre-IPO year when its directors have more upward, pre-IPO EM experience through their services on other IPO boards. The results are robust to controlling for director and CEO network, endogenous matching of directors, and the prior EM experience of financial intermediaries such as venture capitalists and underwriters. The effect of prior EM experience appears to be context specific, as EM experience acquired from the non-IPO setting is not associated with pre-IPO earnings management. Finally, more recent EM experience of directors is more relevant in shaping IPO firms’ financial reporting choices.

Keywords: Initial public offerings, Financial Reporting, earnings management experience, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Bryan, Daniel and Cao, Zhiyan and Feroz, Ehsan H. and Fleming, Brandon, Earnings Management at Initial Public Offerings: Does Directors’ Prior Experience Matter?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4774736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
J Aharoney , C Lin , M Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
N Amornsiripanitch , P A Gompers , Y Xuan
More than Money: Venture Capitalists on Boards
The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 513 - 543 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Accounting scandals in IPO Firms: do underwriters and VCs help
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 19 , p. 1117 - 1181 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
672,649
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies