Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Land Finance and Corporate Corruption Spending in China

Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Louise Yi Lu

Australian National University

Zeyu Sun

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management; Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - Department of Accountancy

Kathy Wang

Australian National University (ANU)

Yangxin Yu

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between government land finance and corporate bribery payments and tax payments in China. Anecdotal evidence and previous research (e.g., Chen 2017; Liu 2018; Chen, Tan, Wang, and Zeng, 2022) suggest that the Chinese government's stricter tax and non-tax enforcement on local firms is a response to the deterioration of land finance. We propose that firms resort to unethical corruption expenses as a means to mitigate expropriation by the government in the face of declining land finance. We follow prior literatures (e.g., Cai, Fang, and Xu 2011; Xu, Zhou, and Du 2018; Kim, Lee, Tang, and Zhang 2022) to measure corporate corruption expenditures as abnormal entertainment and travel costs of Chinese firms. Our findings reveal that a decrease in local government land transfer revenue is associated with an increase in firm corruption expenditures within these jurisdictions. This effect is more pronounced for firms headquartered in cities with higher levels of corruption and governments that exhibit greater market intervention and are governed by officials seeking promotion. Further evidence shows that firms that allocate more resources to corruption are less likely to face higher tax burdens or subsidy reductions when local governments experience a decline in land transfer revenue. Overall, our study provides new insights into the relationship between government land finance and corporate unethical actions and tax avoidance activities in China.

Keywords: government land finance; government expropriation; corporate corruption spending; corporate tax avoidance

JEL Classification: D21; D73; H26; H3; H71

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Louise Yi and Sun, Zeyu and Wang, Kathy and Yu, Yangxin, Government Land Finance and Corporate Corruption Spending in China (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4775651
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
532
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies