Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insiders’ Trading on Non-Private Information:  Evidence from Their Trading on Their Economically Linked Firms’ M&A Events

72 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Meziane Lasfer

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Lijuan Xie

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Xiaoke Ye

University of Liverpool - Accounting and Finance Division

Abstract

We find that insiders trade profitably their own firm’s shares when their economically linked companies become takeover targets. Their trades predict their firm’s receiving takeover bid, and changes in its future operating and innovation efficiencies. The treatment effect is stronger when the target firm is producing homogeneous products and has a more complicated supply chain. We rule out the possibility that insiders are trading on their own firm’s private information. Our results imply that insiders have a better understanding of the impact of the deal on their firm than the aggregate stock market, which suffers from limited attention constraint bias.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, economically linked firms, supply chain, insider trading

Suggested Citation:

Lasfer, Meziane and Xie, Lijuan and Ye, Xiaoke, Insiders’ Trading on Non-Private Information:  Evidence from Their Trading on Their Economically Linked Firms’ M&A Events. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4776534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Agrawal , T Nasser
Insider trading in takeover targets
Journal of corporate finance , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 598 - 625 Posted: 2012
M E Akbulut
Do Overvaluation-Driven Stock Acquisitions Really Benefit Acquirer Shareholders?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 1025 - 1055 Posted: 2013
A Akhigbe , S F Borde , A M Whyte
The Source of Gains to Targets and Their Industry Rivals: Evidence Based on Terminated Merger Proposals
Financial Management , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 101 - 118 Posted: 2000
N Aktas , A Boone , E Croci , A Signori
Reductions in CEO career horizons and corporate policies
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
667,795
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies