Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Risk Taking, Executive Compensation and Financial Performance

32 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Deven Bathia

Queen Mary University of London

Yaz Gulnur Muradoglu

University of Illinois Springfield

Rukaiyat Yusuf

University of Huddersfield

Abstract

In this paper, we show that the relation between CEO compensation, CEO risk taking and firm performance is not unilateral. Low-risk firms benefit from higher CEO compensation, whereas high-risk firms are affected adversely. Especially in high-risk firms, increased executive compensation can result in inferior performance due to greater risk-taking. Our findings have important implications for agency theory. We show that measures to structure executive compensation for low (high) risk firms align (misalign) the interests of executives and owners and incentivize CEOs to undertake strategic risks that enhance (deteriorate) firm performance. Our policy implications are in terms of discouraging short-termism and excessive risk-taking so as to protect the shareholders and society from possible harm. Compensation incentive schemes should be geared towards the attainment of prudent long-term assessment of risk and related revenue generation.

Keywords: CEO compensation, strategic risk-taking, financial performance.

Suggested Citation:

Bathia, Deven and Muradoglu, Yaz Gulnur and Yusuf, Rukaiyat Adebusola, Strategic Risk Taking, Executive Compensation and Financial Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4776530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
H O Balli , B E Sørensen
Interaction effects in econometrics
Empirical Economics , volume 45 , p. 583 - 603 Posted: 2013
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen , H Spamann
The Wages of Failure: Executive Compensation at Bear Stearns and Lehman 2000-2008 Posted: 2010
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried , D I Walker
Managerial Power and Rent Extraction in the Design of Executive Compensation
SSRN , volume 69 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
RANK
514,660
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies