Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preemptive Disclosure

The Wharton School Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Irina Luneva

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

We analyze voluntary disclosure practices in the presence of a leak risk. In a standard model of voluntary disclosure, managers are less forthcoming when negative information may be leaked by external sources. However, if managers prefer to be the bearer of their firm's bad news, potential leaks motivate managers to disclose negative information, preemptively. Empirically, we document that when the probability of a leak is higher, firms offer earnings guidance more frequently and generate systematically lower returns on their voluntary disclosure dates, but subsequently perform better at the time of the potential leak. Poor disclosure-day returns are explained by potential imminent leaks, but not leaks that may have recently occurred. These patterns are consistent with our model of leak preemption; when facing a potential leak, managers become more forthcoming in order to preempt the leaks.

Keywords: D22, D80, J33, L13, M48 Voluntary Disclosure, Leaks, Relative Performance Evaluation

JEL Classification: D22, D80, J33, L13, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Luneva, Irina, Preemptive Disclosure (March 28, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4776887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? the nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
208,120
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies