Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Proactiveness to Corporate Social Responsibility Via Multifaceted Resource Orchestration: A Strategic Perspective

46 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Rimi Zakaria

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater

Steve Kihm

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Praveen Parboteeah

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Abstract

Responsible companies today consider the impact of their actions on society and the environment while exploring entrepreneurial options. Building on prior studies in strategic management and sustainability, this study examines entrepreneurial proactiveness and its links to key aspects of socially responsible corporate actions. Drawing on temporal attention-based view and multifaceted resource orchestration frameworks, we propose an attention-orchestration-performance pathway to explain how firms deliver on their CSR milestones. Applying the Lumpkin-Dess multidimensional conceptualization, we examine the nuanced relationships surrounding proactiveness and environmental, social, and governance ratings. Using content analysis of earnings calls that include time-variant statements, we examine 394 large U.S. firms to test our hypotheses. Empirical results show that proactiveness positively relates to environmental and governance performance. However, a high level of proactiveness does not necessarily translate into higher social ratings. Highlighting some temporal and action-based mechanisms while considering their managerial implications, we discuss important directions for future research at the intersection of strategy and corporate responsibility.

Keywords: Proactiveness, Corporate Social Responsibility, Temporal Attention-Based View, Multifaceted Resource Orchestration, ESG, Earnings Calls

Suggested Citation:

Zakaria, Rimi and Kihm, Steve and Parboteeah, Praveen, From Proactiveness to Corporate Social Responsibility Via Multifaceted Resource Orchestration: A Strategic Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4776278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
J Andersén
Resource orchestration of firm-specific human capital and firm performance-the role of collaborative human resource management and entrepreneurial orientation
The International Journal of Human Resource Management , volume 32 , issue 10 , p. 2091 - 2123 Posted: 2021
J Andersén
An Attention-Based View on Environmental Management: The Influence of Entrepreneurial Orientation, Environmental Sustainability Orientation, and Competitive Intensity on Green Product Innovation in Swedish Small Manufacturing Firms
Organization & Environment , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 627 - 652 Posted: 2022
J Andersén
Green resource orchestration: A critical appraisal of the use of resource orchestration in environmental management research, and a research agenda for future study
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 5506 - 5520 Posted: 2023
B Anderson , P M Kreiser , D M Kuratko , J M Hornsby , Y Eshima
Reconceptualizing EO. Strategic Management Journal , volume 36 , p. 1579 - 1596 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
RANK
833,930
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies