Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Healthcare Executive’S Resistance to Clinician Developed Cost and Productivity Indicators: Evidence from an Interventionist Study

28 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Teemu Malmi

Aalto University School of Business

David Derichs

Aalto University

Michelle Carr

University College Cork

Abstract

Clinician’s resistance to cost management is argued to be a consequence of the inadequacy of accounting practices being designed according to reforms inspired by managerial orientation. The objective of this paper is to report on an interventionist study which involved the development of a novel cost containment method to support productivity enhancement activities at the clinician level of a medium-sized US teaching hospital. Participating in the development process, we supported clinicians to construct cost accounting information in a way that both appeals and is actionable in healthcare settings. This cost containment approach combined cost information with scientifically validated clinical information (severity index) and visually disaggregated the information along with length of stay data with the aim of identifying and reducing unwarranted variation in cost. Despite this novel cost containment method being a result of clinicians’ efforts, it confronted resistance by executives, including those having medical background. Our findings demonstrate that the inability of the intervention in achieving wider appeal and minimising unwarranted variation can be explained by factors related to economic considerations, internal power dynamics as well as issues related to professional instilled beliefs. We focus our theoretical analysis on professional beliefs, including the idea that cost savings could be detrimental to quality, as well as the expectations regarding the exactness of accounting information to be useful, as these have received little attention in prior accounting research. In addition to elaborating theoretically on the reasons for executive level resistance, our findings suggest policy implications for those interested in improving the productivity of healthcare provision.

Keywords: cost containment, front line engagement, executive resistance, interventionist research, healthcare management, novel accounting methods

Suggested Citation:

Malmi, Teemu and Derichs, David and Carr, Michelle, Healthcare Executive’S Resistance to Clinician Developed Cost and Productivity Indicators: Evidence from an Interventionist Study. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
Physicians and resource management in hospitals: an empirical investigation
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 6 , p. 17 - 31 Posted: 1990
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
The role of professional control in the management of complex organizations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1995
M A Abernethy , E Vagnoni
Power, organization design and managerial behaviour
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
D Agostino , M Arnaboldi , M D Lema
New development: COVID-19 as an accelerator of digital transformation in public service delivery
Public Money & Management , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 72 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
375
RANK
805,600
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies