Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Busy Auditors and Earnings Conservatism

40 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Abhijeet SINGH

Curtin University

Harjinder Singh

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Nigar Sultana

Curtin University of Technology - Curtin Business School - Bentley Campus; Curtin University - School of Accounting

Ariful Islam

Curtin University

Sarowar Hossain

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Abstract

One recent governance mechanism receiving both scholarly and regulatory attention is audit partner busyness (APB) with the notion that APB can be potentially beneficial or detrimental to governance quality and thereby, audit quality. We seek to provide evidence on this notion by examining the association between APB and earnings conservatism, a central tenet of financial reporting quality. Using five measures of earnings conservatism, we find that APB is negatively related to conservatism. Our results support the contention that auditing multiple clients constrains audit partner’s time and effort per engagement and, thus, reduces audit quality. Consequently, by demonstrating that APB is potentially a negative governance feature, we better inform the debate on APB and contribute to policy implications in this area.

Keywords: Audit partner busyness, audit quality, conservatism, financial reporting quality.

Suggested Citation:

SINGH, Abhijeet and Singh, Harjinder and Sultana, Nigar and Sultana, Nigar and Islam, Ariful and Hossain, Sarowar, Busy Auditors and Earnings Conservatism. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession for the U.S. Development of the Treasury Posted: 2008-10-11
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and Reducing Debt Costs , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting Conservatism and Board of Director Characteristics: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y Kim
Multiple Directorships and Acquirer Returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
785,362
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies