Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental litigation reform and firms’ environmental disclosures

Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Guilong Cai

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Tuan Quoc Ho

University of Bristol

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Yanan Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - Lingnan (University) College

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

By exploiting the staggered city-level establishment of specialized environmental courts in China as exogenous shocks and using a difference-in-differences research design, we study the effect of environmental litigation risk on corporate environmental disclosure. We find that firms in the polluting industries significantly increase their disclosure of environmental information relatively to firms in the non-polluting industries, after the city where the corporate headquarters locate sets up environmental courts. The effect of environmental court establishment on environment disclosure is conditional on the quality of legal environment, public scrutiny, political connection, and financial constraints. The channel tests show that environmental courts establishment is associated with increase in corporate environmental litigation penalties and in media and analyst attention, consistent with the argument that environmental courts lead to higher litigation risk. Collectively, our findings suggest that higher environmental litigation risk incentivizes firms to issue more environmental disclosures to reduce the propensity of subsequent stakeholder lawsuits.

Keywords: Environmental Court, Litigation Risk, Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Enforcement, Pollution, China

JEL Classification: G12, G31, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Guilong and Ho, Tuan Quoc and Lee, Edward and Zhang, Yanan, Environmental litigation reform and firms’ environmental disclosures (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777121
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies