Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' National Office Consultations

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4777012

47 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Matthew Sherwood

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

We study national office consultations (NOCs) using a mixed-methods approach. Our review of large audit firms’ NOC methodologies covers detailed internal guidelines, including a list of required consultation topics, and finds that NOCs can be classified as mandatory, voluntary, formal, or informal. Our structured interviews reveal that audit engagement leaders perceive NOCs as part of quality control, a source of domain-specific expertise, and a means of securing their firm’s backing. Most public company engagements will have at least one NOC, but an NOC is not always required. However, the NOC process is increasingly perceived as formulaic due to regulatory oversight, and sometimes as a frustrating compliance exercise that limits partners' and engagement teams’ professional judgment. Analyzing PCAOB inspection data, we find that 73 percent of inspected engagements have formal NOCs and that engagement characteristics can predict consultations and variation in national office hours. Additional analyses reveal that engagements with more extensive NOCs are less likely to receive a Part I inspection finding. Overall, audit firms rely extensively on NOCs, but this practice faces limitations as a monitoring mechanism.

Keywords: national office, consultations, audit quality, PCAOB, inspections

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Sherwood, Matthew and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Auditors' National Office Consultations (April 1, 2024). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4777012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional Work Shaping Auditors
National Office Consultations*. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
S Aghazadeh , M K Dodgson , Y J Kang , M Peytcheva
Knowledge Creation and Transfer in the Context of National Office Consultations: Experiences of Audit Firm Partners
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2023
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
K Amin , J Pittman , Z Yang , H Zhu
The importance of proximity to the audit firm's national office to practice office growth and audit quality Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,061
RANK
306,185
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies