Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tight Leash or a Tight Spot? A Case Study of Tightness of Management Controls in the German Insurance Industry

52 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Amra Tica

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Barbara E. Weißenberger

Bucerius Law School; Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Abstract

Starting from the definition of tight budgetary controls by Van der Stede (2001), this paper aims to re-test if this definition still stands valid for budgetary controls today, and if it can be used to describe other types of controls as well, like action controls, personnel controls, and cultural controls. Furthermore, this paper aims to explore if there are other characteristics which could be used to describe management control tightness, and provides a detailed insight into employee perception of tight Management Control Systems. Adopting a qualitative research design, this paper uses a case study set in the German insurance industry and draws on 15 semi-structured interviews. Using a hybrid approach of thematical analysis, encompassing inductive and deductive coding (Fereday and Muir-Cochrane, 2006), this paper finds that Van der Stede’s (20001) attributes of tight budgetary control could not be used to describe tight budgetary controls in this case, even though employees attested to their high tightness. However, this paper demonstrates that three of Van der Stede’s (2001) identified attributes can be used to describe tightness of action controls, personnel controls, and cultural controls: 1. a high emphasis on meeting the goal, 2. a low tolerance for deviation, and 3. communication (however, in an altered and broader sense than Van der Stede (2001) described. Furthermore, this paper also suggests four additional attributes that could broaden the current definition of control tightness.

Keywords: Management Control Systems (MCS), tightness of control, result controls, action controls, personnel controls, cultural controls, insurance industry, case study, thematical analysis, inductive coding, deductive coding

Suggested Citation:

Tica, Amra and Weißenberger, Barbara E., A Tight Leash or a Tight Spot? A Case Study of Tightness of Management Controls in the German Insurance Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777452 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M Akerström
Curiosity and Serendipity in Qualitative Research
Qualitative Sociology Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 10 - 18 Posted: 2013
R N Anthony
Planning and Control Systems: A Framework for Analysis Posted: 1965
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems, 9th edition Posted: 1998
P Atkinson , D Silverman
Kundera's 'Immortality': The interview society and the invention of self
Qualitative Inquiry , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 304 - 325 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
RANK
622,944
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies