Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Regulation, Good Corporate Governance, and Corporate Performance

9 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Argo Putra Prima

Universitas Sumatera Utara

Erlina Erlina

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Sirojuzilam Sirojuzilam

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

idhar yahya

Universitas Sumatera Utara

Date Written: March 29, 2024

Abstract

This qualitative study examines the relationship between government regulation, effective corporate governance, and corporate performance in Indonesia. This study aims to provide valuable insights into how government regulation and good corporate governance practices influence corporate performance in the context of Indonesia by examining the experiences and perspectives of key stakeholders, such as government officials, corporate executives, and industry experts. These experiences and perspectives will be gleaned from an examination of the experiences and perspectives of key stakeholders. The purpose of this study is to determine the processes via which efficient government regulation and comprehensive corporate governance practices might lead to improved business performance, which in turn will encourage sustainable growth and development. The findings of this study will not only improve our understanding of the complex relationship between government regulation, corporate governance, and corporate performance, but they will also provide recommendations to policymakers and corporate leaders in Indonesia for the purpose of cultivating an environment that is conducive to the success of businesses as well as the general welfare of society.

Keywords: Government Regulation, Good Corporate Governance, Corporate Performance

Suggested Citation:

Prima, Argo Putra and Erlina, Erlina and Sirojuzilam, Sirojuzilam and yahya, idhar, Government Regulation, Good Corporate Governance, and Corporate Performance (March 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Alkurdi , A Hamad , H Thneibat , M Elmarzouky
Ownership structure's effect on financial performance: An empirical analysis of Jordanian listed firms
Cogent Business and Management , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
R Anand
Corporate Governance: Role of HR
NHRD Network Journal , volume 12 , issue 4 Posted: 2019
N D T Antou , N J Poluan , L B Pandeirot , A C Aseng
The Effect of Good Corporate Governance Mechanism on Earnings Management
Klabat Journal of Management , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
M F M Budiman , A Krisnawati
Can Good Corporate Governance Influence the Firm Performance? Empirical Study from Indonesia Transportation Firms
AFRE (Accounting and Financial Review) , p. 4 - 5 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
439,204
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies