Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Externalities of ESG Disclosure

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 880/2023

60 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2024

Yi Jiang

Harbin Institute of Technology (shenzhen)

Ya Kang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Hao Liang

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 2024

Abstract

We study the negative externalities of mandatory environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure through the lens of regulatory salience. Our analysis exploits a unique setting in China, where firms differ in their exposure to a countrywide political campaign of combating poverty depending on whether they are required to disclose their contribution to it on their ESG reports (“treatment”). Using a difference-in-differences analysis, we find that treated firms significantly increase their donations to poverty alleviation but also their pollutions, following the treatment. Negative environmental externalities increase with firms’ financial constraints and market competition. Further evidence shows that treated firms receive more government subsidies and state-owned bank loans, and achieve greater operating performance and valuation. Collectively, these findings suggest that mandatory ESG disclosure may induce firms to trade off different ESG goals by prioritizing more conspicuous ESG practices at the cost of trivializing other, longer-term, issues.

Keywords: ESG disclosure, poverty alleviation, pollution, regulatory salience, political incentives

JEL Classification: G18, G32, G38, K22, K32, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yi and Kang, Ya and Liang, Hao, The Externalities of ESG Disclosure (March 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 880/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
S M Bartram , K Hou , S Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
A Beatty , S Liao , J J Yu
The spillover effect of fraudulent financial reporting on peer firms' investments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2-3 , p. 183 - 205 Posted: 2013
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
RANK
230,777
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University Lee Kong Chian School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies