Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disruption in the market for information: MiFID II and investor relations

66 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Subhash Abhayawansa

Swinburne University of Technology

Mark Aleksanyan

University of Glasgow

Kenneth Lee

Loughborough University

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

Our study addresses the complex processes by which actors in the market for information reposition themselves and recalibrate their work in response to an external event. The empirical prompt for our study was the introduction of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II, which regulated a wide range of issues on information flows and payments for research in capital markets. Drawing from in-depth interview data and survey results from UK investor relations (IR) professionals we explore how the activities and practices of IR professionals, and their relations with other key capital market actors such as sell-side analysts and investors, have changed. We find that the operational processes within the market for information have been materially disrupted and observe an increase in the importance and relevance of the IR function both internally (within their organisations) and externally (in the field of investment advice). We provide evidence of extensive ‘jostling for position’ in the field which is perceived to have resulted in the (at least partial) disintermediation of the sell-side and increased direct ‘interlocking’ of investors and IR professionals in their engagement and information communication practices. We report on a changing information market paradigm (sequencing of communication) – where the traditional information and relational intermediation roles of sell-side analysts are now increasingly contested and assumed by IR professionals.

Keywords: MiFID II, Investor Relations, IROs, Sell-side analysts, Investors, Practice

JEL Classification: M4, G2

Suggested Citation:

Abhayawansa, Subhash and Aleksanyan, Mark and Lee, Kenneth, Disruption in the market for information: MiFID II and investor relations (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Abhayawansa , M Aleksanyan , I Tsalavoutas , K Lee
Usefulness of real-time information: Views of professional investors and analysts Posted: 2022
A Amzallag , C Guagliano , V L Passo
MiFID II Research Unbundlingimpact on EU equity markets Posted: 2021-10-24
G Anselmi , G Petrella
Regulation and stock market quality: The impact of MiFID II provision on research unbundling
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 76 Posted: 2021
R Armstrong
The unmourned death of the sell-side analyst
Financial Times Posted: 2018-10-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies