Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effects of Environmental Transparency and Enforcement Regulation: Evidence From Commodity Trading Firms

The Wharton School Research Paper

55 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2024

Sandra G. Schafhäutle

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of environmental transparency and enforcement regulation on the sourcing patterns of commodity trading firms (i.e., firms that source commodities from producers and distribute them downstream). By exploiting Brazil's priority regulation targeting producers in deforestation-intense municipalities, I find trading firms do not reallocate their sourcing from regulated to unregulated locations. However, treated trading firms reduce their exposure to deforestation and CO2 emissions associated with their sourcing in both regulated and unregulated locations relative to control firms. Although the effect in regulated locations could reflect the first-order responses by producers, the positive spillover effect in unregulated locations suggests trading firms respond to upstream production shocks and enhance the sustainability of their firm-wide sourcing activities. Importantly, (i) local enforcement actions and (ii) voluntary commitments to zero-deforestation sourcing and third-party audits appear to be crucial factors in altering trading firms' behavior and thereby enhancing the sustainability of commodity sourcing.

Keywords: Deforestation, enforcement, environmental regulation, supply chains, transparency, CO2 emissions

JEL Classification: F14, F18, G38, L14, O13, Q13, Q17, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Schafhäutle, Sandra G., The Spillover Effects of Environmental Transparency and Enforcement Regulation: Evidence From Commodity Trading Firms (June 30, 2023). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Alix-Garcia , J Gibbs , H K
Forest conservation effects of Brazil's zero deforestation cattle agreements undermined by leakage
Global Environmental Change , volume 47 , p. 201 - 217 Posted: 2017
L C Andrade
Spillover effects of blacklisting policy in the Brazilian Amazon Posted: 2016
E Y Arima , P Barreto , E Araújo , B Soares-Filho
Public policies can reduce tropical deforestation: Lessons and challenges from Brazil
Land Use Policy , volume 41 , p. 465 - 473 Posted: 2014
E Y Arima , P Richards , R Walker , M M Caldas
Statistical confirmation of indirect land use change in the Brazilian Amazon
Environmental Research Letters , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
175,517
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies