Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes, Profit Shifting, and the Real Activities of MNEs: Evidence from Corporate Tax Notches

53 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Jaqueline Hansen

University of Tübingen

Valeria Merlo

University of Tuebingen

Georg Wamser

University of Tübingen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 29, 2024

Abstract

We exploit exogenous variation in tax notches created by controlled foreign corporation (CFC) rules to better understand the profit-shifting behavior of multinational enterprises (MNEs) and its consequences for real activity. Using new data on CFC rules and information on direct parent-affiliate ownership links, our identification approach allows us to estimate an unbiased profit-shifting semi-elasticity of about 0.22. Removing incentives to shift profits to particular low-tax locations leads to profit relocation to 'next-best' low-tax countries, allowing firms to circumvent domestic taxation. We do not find any significant effects on parent shareholders, neither in terms of repatriated profit nor in terms of their real economic activity. Other entities within the MNE, where profits get relocated to, see a significant increase in various measures of real activity.

Keywords: corporate taxation, profit shifting, anti-tax-avoidance rules, multinational enterprise, firm organization

JEL Classification: F23, H25

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, Jaqueline and Merlo, Valeria and Wamser, Georg, Taxes, Profit Shifting, and the Real Activities of MNEs: Evidence from Corporate Tax Notches (March 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
R Altshuler , L Boller , J C Suárez Serrato
Tax planning and multinational behavior Posted: 2023
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 660 - 688 Posted: 2020
K Bilicka
Labor market consequences of antitax avoidance policies , p. 21 - 354 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
RANK
212,316
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies