Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Landscape of Earnings Management: The Role of Discretion in Revenue Recognition

67 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2024

Wonjae Chang

City University of Hong Kong

Inho Suk

The State University of New York at Buffalo; Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

As a transition towards a principles-based framework, ASC 606 allows considerable managerial discretion on revenue recognition. We examine how managers use the reporting discretion expanded under ASC 606. We find that discretionary revenues increase following the implementation of ASC 606, and such an increase is mainly driven by aggressive, premature, and opportunistic revenue recognition. Consistent with the revenue management hypothesis, the increase in discretionary revenue recognition is more pronounced for firms with weak governance and strong incentives to inflate reported earnings. Furthermore, after ASC 606 adoption, firms are more likely to use discretionary revenues to meet or beat analyst forecasts, and the excessive use of discretionary revenues leads to earnings restatements. On the contrary, firms are less likely to engage in real earnings management, suggesting that revenue management serves as a low-cost alternative to real earnings management under ASC 606. Taken together, our findings suggest that revenue management becomes a new dominant form of earnings management under ASC 606, which has altered firms’ earnings management practices.

Keywords: Discretionary revenues, reporting discretion, revenue recognition, revenue management, earnings management, principles-based accounting

JEL Classification: D80, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Wonjae and Suk, Inho, The Changing Landscape of Earnings Management: The Role of Discretion in Revenue Recognition (March 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary accounting research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
W Ali , A Tseng
The Effects of ASC 606 on Revenue Recognition Posted: 2023
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The Effects of Accelerated Revenue Recognition on Earnings Management and Earnings Informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
268,675
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies