Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance in Small and Micro Sized Enterprises: A Cross- Country Investigation

27 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Eleftheria Panagiotidou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Andreas Hadjixenophontos

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Athanasios Mandilas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper attempts to investigate in a theoretical and empirical context, the issue of tax compliance of small and micro entities. With the share of small and micro enterprises corresponding to 98.9% of the total business community, in countries like Greece, tax compliance by these enterprises is very important to state finances. Greece is heavily indebted and is in great need of tax revenues to carry out an aggressive economic policy that will assist in speeding up economic development that has so far lagged behind the average of the European Union. Tax evasion in Greece is considered one of the most compelling chronic diseases of its economy with estimates about the black economy approaching 21.7%. This study focuses on the key factors that have a decisive influence on tax compliance and consequently on the high levels of tax evasion, using a regression model specifically tailored to the sample selected. The survey findings suggest a strong relationship between tax ethics and tax audits with tax compliance. This is particularly true in the case of young entrepreneurs who tend to exhibit higher levels of ethics. Increasing awareness combined with the enhancement of audit mechanisms can act as important catalysts in reducing tax evasion among small and micro businesses in Greece.

Keywords: tax compliance, Tax evasion, Small and micro enterprises, tax ethics, tax audit, tax awareness

Suggested Citation:

Panagiotidou, Eleftheria and Hadjixenophontos, Andreas and Mandilas, Athanasios, Tax Compliance in Small and Micro Sized Enterprises: A Cross- Country Investigation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits Posted: 2017
M M Ali , H W Cecil , J A Knoblett
The effects of tax rates and enforcement policies on taxpayer compliance: A study of self-employed taxpayers
Atlantic economic journal , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 186 - 202 Posted: 2001
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of public economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International tax and public finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
827
RANK
527,931
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies