Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Mortgage Fraud



55 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Xi Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: March 30, 2024

Abstract

Mortgage fraud was a leading force behind the 2008 financial crisis. We measure the fraudulent income overstatement at the bank-ZIP Code-year level as the difference in the local growth between reported income in mortgage applications and the income based on IRS data. We find that overstated income is positively associated with banks’ internal control weaknesses over financial reporting and negatively associated with subsequent remediation of such weaknesses. The associations are concentrated among banks that integrate their accounting and operation processes, as proxied by adoption of an Enterprise Resource Planning system. Finally, using the removal of internal control provisions in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act in 2005 as a shock to internal control quality, we find that affected banks experience increased income overstatement on mortgage applications.

Keywords: Mortgage Applications; Fraudulent Income Overstatement; Bank; Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Fraudulent Income Overstatement, Bank, Internal Control over Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28, G51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Yiwei and Wang, Danye and Wu, Xi, Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Mortgage Fraud


(March 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4778461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4778461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
V Acharya , H Naqvi
The seeds of a crisis: A theory of bank liquidity and risk taking over the business cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y H A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
Management override of internal controls: The Achilles' Heel of fraud prevention Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,371
RANK
310,156
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies