Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Real and Reporting Responses to Taxation: A Review

101 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Feb 2025

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Marcel Olbert

London Business School

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

Taxation is a central economic policy tool, with governments increasingly using tax policy to stimulate local economic growth and also regulate multinational firms.  We review the empirical literature that studies the effect of tax policies on firms' investment, employment, and other real outcomes. Building on the neoclassical theory of corporate taxes and tangible investment, we propose an organizing framework for our review that captures the wide set of tax policies and firm responses examined in accounting research. This framework highlights four dimensions along which accounting scholars contribute to the literature: i) documenting the role of financial reporting incentives as a moderating factor in firms' real responses, ii) studying firms' reporting versus real responses, iii) quantifying real effects of tax disclosure regulations, and iv) improving measurement of firms' tax status as well as frequently used proxies for investment and employment. We identify open questions for future research and suggest new international, federal, and local settings that may help uncover underlying mechanisms driving observed economic phenomena. Specifically, we encourage scholars to further distinguish firms’ reported and real responses to tax changes and improve measurement of these outcomes, especially in settings related to environmental taxation or settings in which tax avoidance and real outcomes are closely linked.

Keywords: Tax policy, business taxation, real effects, tax disclosure, literature review

JEL Classification: H20, H23, H25, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Lester, Rebecca and Olbert, Marcel, Firms' Real and Reporting Responses to Taxation: A Review (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
393 References
J L Abernathy , S A Davenport , E T Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock price reaction and economic consequences
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2013
J Abraham , M Olbert , F Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , D Hanley , W Kerr
Transition to clean technology
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 52 - 104 Posted: 2016
J R Adams , E Demers , K J Klassen
Tax aggressive behavior and voluntary tax disclosure: Evidence from Corporate Sustainability Reporting Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,763
RANK
25,036
2 Citations
393 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies