Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ESG Honesty Pay? Evidence from LGBT Support and Disclosure

66 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Geoffrey Pears

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

Firm ESG strategy contains two elements: real support and disclosure. While correlated, real ESG support and disclosure of that support are separate decisions, and firms can do both, neither, or either one without the other. In an LGBT setting, I classify firms based on their real LGBT support and their disclosure of that support. I study the effects of full support, silent support, non-support, and virtue signaling, and I find that firms have lower net income, market share, revenue, and market capitalization when they are virtue signalers and when they are silent supporters. This is true both across firms and within firms over time, and the results are robust to selection adjustments and alternative variable measures. In cross-sectional tests, I show the results are weaker for firms in consumer-facing industries and stronger for firms with more diverse employee bases, suggesting the benefits of LGBT support and disclosure are driven by employee stakeholders and not consumers. Additionally, consistent with strategic ESG disclosure, I find that ESG support and disclosure decisions are driven by close competitors. Last, in a novel descriptive result, I show that LGBT non-support is concentrated in the quartile of industries with the lowest percentage of female and minority employees.

Keywords: LGBT disclosure, Environmental social and governance (ESG), Corporate social responsibility (CSR), Employee non-discrimination

JEL Classification: D22, J15, J16, J24, M14, M50

Suggested Citation:

Pears, Geoffrey, Does ESG Honesty Pay? Evidence from LGBT Support and Disclosure (April 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4780570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
Herman Aguinis , Ante Glavas
What We Know and Don't Know About Corporate Social Responsibility: A Review and Research Agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
George A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Al-Tuwaijri , A Sulaiman , E Theodore , K E Christensen , I I Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Amiraslani , Karl V Hami , Henri Lins , Ane Sevaes , Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , issue 28 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
854
RANK
339,258
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies