Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Impact of Enhanced Segment Comparability and Competitive Views on Managers’ Resource Allocation Decisions: Pre- and Post- Updated Segment Reporting Standard (ASU 2023-07)

49 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 14 Nov 2024

Chez Sealy

University of Alabama

Elaine Wang

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Yao Yu

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Date Written: April 2024

Abstract

Investors and regulators frequently advocate for enhanced segment comparability and improvements to segment disclosures. In response, the FASB recently issued ASU 2023-07, which requires additional segment-specific disclosures. With multiple experiments, we examine how segment comparability affects managers’ resource allocation decisions, and whether such an effect varies with managers’ competitive views, in both the pre- and post-ASU reporting regimes. We consider managers to be more competition-focused if they believe a firm’s primary purpose is to outperform competitors and less competition-focused if they believe a firm’s primary purpose is to maximize their own firm’s profit. We predict and find that in the pre-ASU regime, enhanced segment comparability causes more (but not less) competition-focused managers to make less efficient resource allocation decisions. In the post-ASU regime, enhanced segment comparability still leads more competition-focused managers to make less efficient resource allocation decisions, but it helps less competition-focused managers make more efficient resource allocation decisions.

Keywords: resource allocation decisions, segment comparability, additional disclosures, segment reporting regulation, managers’ competitive views

JEL Classification: G40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sealy, Chezham and Wang, Elaine (Ying) and Yu, Yao, The Joint Impact of Enhanced Segment Comparability and Competitive Views on Managers’ Resource Allocation Decisions: Pre- and Post- Updated Segment Reporting Standard (ASU 2023-07) (April 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4780349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
S Armstrong , F Collopy
Competitor Orientation: Effects of Objectives and Information on Managerial Decisions and Profitability
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 33 , p. 188 - 199 Posted: 1996
S Armstrong , K C Green
Competitor-oriented Objectives: The Myth of Market Share
International Journal of Business , volume 12 , p. 117 - 136 Posted: 2007
D B Arnett , S D Hunt
Competitive Irrationality: The Influence of Moral Philosophy
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 279 - 303 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
RANK
459,150
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies