Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings, BVs, Dividends, and the Forward E/P

15 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2024

James Ohlson

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

The paper connects a firm’s forward EP to its financial characteristics, ROE, BTM-ratio, dividend payout, the discounting parameter, and accounting conservatism. More broadly, value is related to accounting data. Of particular interest will be the role of growth. To that effect, the initial analysis spells out a benchmark which identifies a steady state setting to derive the three accounting variables growth. A second benchmark establishes conditions necessary and sufficient for a constant forward EP. Both PVD and dividend policy irrelevance apply, but the discounting parameter generally exceeds the EP ratio because of accounting conservatism. The final part relaxes assumptions to ensure that the forward EP can change over time. In this setting the underlying earnings forecasts depend on an expanded information environment. This modelling supports a fundamental economic reality: the (non-constant) forward EP is relatively low when the future expected earnings growth, adjusted for foregone earnings due to dividends, is relatively high.

Keywords: FSA, forward E/P valuation

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ohlson, James, Earnings, BVs, Dividends, and the Forward E/P (April 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4780420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
411,549
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies