Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Traits of CEOs and Cybersecurity-Related Disclosure

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Vu Quang Trinh

Newcastle University Business School

Marwa Elnahass

Newcastle University Business School

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

Date Written: April 3, 2024

Abstract

Cybersecurity attacks represent a pressing corporate risk that has shaped contemporary practice worldwide. Motivated by the increased frequency of cyberattacks experienced by corporations around the world, we examine the effect of a CEO’s personal traits (i.e., qualifications, directorships, marital status, tenure, and age) on both the propensity and the level of cybersecurity-related disclosures. Using a sample of publicly traded U.S. firms during 2002–2020, we find the following results. Firms led by CEOs who have PhDs are likely to disclose less cybersecurity information, but firms led by CEOs who serve as directors of multiple firms show higher levels of disclosure. Furthermore, longer-tenured CEOs tend to disclose less, whereas married and older CEOs disclose more. Our findings suggest that the personal traits of managers are fundamental in explaining firms’ discrepant cybersecurity disclosure practices. The results offer new insights and have important implications for national regulators across the world, international accounting bodies, and investors. They also suggest directions for future studies of strategic responses to institutional pressures and firms’ cybersecurity policies and controls.

Keywords: Cybersecurity, Disclosure; CEO characteristics; Securities Exchange Commission (SEC); Financial Crisis; COVID-19

JEL Classification: C23; G01; G21; G28; L50; M41

Suggested Citation:

Trinh, Vu Quang and Elnahass, Marwa and Pasiouras, Fotios, Personal Traits of CEOs and Cybersecurity-Related Disclosure (April 3, 2024). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4782601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
R B Adams , A N Licht , L Sagiv
Shareholders and stakeholders: How do directors decide?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 12 , p. 1331 - 1355 Posted: 2011
N S Alan , A K Karagozoglu , T Zhou
Firm-Level Cybersecurity Risk and Idiosyncratic Volatility
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 47 , issue 9 , p. 110 - 140 Posted: 2021
S Albring , M Banyi , D Dhaliwal , R Pereira
Does the Firm Information Environment Influence Financing Decisions? A Test Using Disclosure Regulation
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 456 - 478 Posted: 2016
R Alharbi , M Elnahass , J Mclaren , J Amernic , R Craig
Women directors and market valuation: What are the "Wonder Woman" attributes in banking?
Leadership Discourse, Culture, and Corporate Ethics , volume 80 , p. 379 - 394 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
182,965
3 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies