Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Skills and Income Smoothing

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Minyoung Noh

California State University, Los Angeles - Department of Accounting

You-il (Chris) Park

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 4, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether labor skills affect managers’ income smoothing activities. We hypothesize firms that rely on skilled labor have greater incentives to smooth earnings to reduce labor turnover and facilitate replacements. Consistent with our hypothesis, we find that firms’ labor skills are positively associated with managers’ income smoothing activities. Leveraging the staggered rejection of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine (IDD) by 16 US states, which exogenously increases external job opportunities for high-skill employees, we find that the positive relation between labor skill and income smoothing is stronger for firms in the IDD rejection states. Our results are also stronger during non-recession periods characterized by higher differential costs of turnover between high-skill and low-skill employees and robust to controlling for employees’ education. The mechanism for the positive relation between labor skills and income smoothing is attributable to the higher cost incurred by firms in the turnover of high-skill labor compared to low-skill labor and is consistent with the information-garbling story. Furthermore, we show that future employment volatility decreases with income smoothing. Collectively, our findings are consistent with the view that income smoothing stabilizes skilled workers’ employment by reducing turnover and facilitating the hiring of replacements.

Keywords: Labor skill, Labor heterogeneity, Income smoothing, Labor adjustment costs, Labor turnover

JEL Classification: J24, G30, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Kim, Tae Wook and Noh, Minyoung and Park, You-il (Chris), Labor Skills and Income Smoothing (April 4, 2024). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
681
RANK
538,134
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies