Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overcoming the Liability of Foreignness in a Period of De-Coupling: The Effect of Identity Decoupling on Acquirer's Post-Acquisition Performance

39 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024

Qiuxia Zheng

Shandong University

Niels Noorderhaven

Tilburg University

Abstract

Foreign identity is a fundamental source of liability of foreignness, which brings great challenges for foreign acquirers in achieving legitimacy in host markets. Processes of de-globalization and decoupling of national economies will likely exacerbate these problems. We propose that identity decoupling is a key strategic response to alleviate legitimacy concerns and to enhance performance. Moreover, we argue that identity labels of the target firm and the acquiring firm’s organizational status form set of boundary conditions to the proposed relationship between identity decoupling and acquisition performance. Analysis of a sample of global cross-border acquisitions shows that identity decoupling is positively associated with acquirer’s post-acquisition performance. We also find that two types of identity labels of target firms, being a public and being a high-tech target, strengthen the positive relationship. The size of the acquiring firm, an indicator of achieved status, weakens the relationship, but we find no effect of the country of origin of the acquirer, an indicator of ascribed status. Theoretically, we conceptualize identity decoupling as a strategy to avoid legitimacy issues in cross-border acquisitions. Empirically, we show that this strategy has a positive effect on performance, and is subject to several boundary conditions.

Keywords: Liability of foreignness, identity decoupling, post-acquisition performance, identity label, organizational status

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Qiuxia and Noorderhaven, Niels, Overcoming the Liability of Foreignness in a Period of De-Coupling: The Effect of Identity Decoupling on Acquirer's Post-Acquisition Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
327
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies