Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will Corporate Valuation Affect Corporate Investment Behavior?Based on an Empirical Study of CEO Narcissism

28 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Jackie Zhanbiao Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chai Lee Goi

Curtin University

Lynn, Yew Hua, Ling

Curtin University Malaysia

Awadh Bin-Nashwan Saeed

Dhofar University

Abstract

Abstract: Analyzing a sample of China's Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listed companies from 2012 to 2022, this study investigates the relationship between corporate valuation, CEO narcissism, and investment levels. Findings indicate that effective corporate valuation leads to higher investment levels and decreases inefficient investment.However, CEO narcissistic behavior undermines the positive influence of corporate valuation on investment levels and exacerbates its adverse impact on inefficient investment. Furthermore, the research reveals that state-owned enterprises exhibit a stronger positive correlation between corporate valuation and investment levels compared to non-state-owned enterprises. Additionally, CEO narcissistic behavior exacerbates the inhibition of the relationship between corporate valuation and investment levels in state-owned enterprises, while also intensifying the correlation between corporate valuation and investment efficiency. Moreover, the relationship between corporate valuation and inefficient investment is particularly pronounced in state-owned enterprises.Theoretical enrichment of extant research on the interplay among corporate valuation, CEO narcissism, and investment levels is provided, and practical implications for enhancing the investment climate in China's capital market are offered.

Keywords: Key word: Corporate Valuation, CEO Narcissism, Investment Levels

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jackie Zhanbiao and Goi, Chai Lee and Ling, Lynn, Yew Hua, and Saeed, Awadh Bin-Nashwan, Will Corporate Valuation Affect Corporate Investment Behavior?Based on an Empirical Study of CEO Narcissism. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
759,678
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies