Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit Committee Directors with Prior Experience of Financial Reporting Failure Ineffective Monitors?

53 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Youngki Jang

University of Delaware

Joonil Lee

Kyung Hee University

Peter (Seung Hwan) Oh

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Patrick W. Ryu

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2024

Abstract

Board directors suffer reputational damage as ineffective monitors when the firm that they serve in has a failure in financial reporting, but this event can also provide an opportunity to learn and improve their monitoring effectiveness. To shed light on this debate, we examine the audit quality of firms with audit committee directors who previously served in a firm that misstated its financial statements. We find that these directors are more likely to be involved in another misstatement in their current appointments, indicating that they are ineffective monitors in financial reporting. In addition, audit committees with these directors tend to allow low quality audit inputs such as less specialized auditors and low quality audit outputs evidenced by higher discretionary accruals. However, we also find evidence that these audit committee directors can improve their monitoring quality if they have participated in restating the misstated financial statements or have adequate accounting and financial expertise. Overall, our findings suggest that while a misstatement indicates lower quality, audit committee directors can “learn from their mistakes” under the right conditions, providing an alternative view that not every director who experienced accounting misstatement is of lower quality.

Keywords: financial misstatement; governance failure over financial reporting; restatement experience; audit quality; audit committee; accounting and financial expertise

JEL Classification: G34; M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jang, Youngki and Lee, Joonil and Oh, Peter (Seung Hwan) and Ryu, Patrick W., Are Audit Committee Directors with Prior Experience of Financial Reporting Failure Ineffective Monitors? (March 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A journal of practice & theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
J Aier , J Comprix , M Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
P Badolato , D Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
RANK
747,544
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies