Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informal Family Ties and Family Control Around the World

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Fariborz Moshirian

Institute of Global Finance, UNSW Business School

Peter K. Pham

University of Sydney Business School

Thi Thuy Anh Vo

University of Economics - University of Da Nang

Thuy Thi Nguyen

University of Economics, University of Danang

Date Written: August 11, 2024

Abstract

Research question/issue: The dominant view in both finance and legal literature is that legal investor protection determines the incidence of family firms around the world. However, little is known about the role of informal institutions in determining the prevalence of family control among listed firms. This study expands on the existing literature by providing evidence of how informal family ties shape the incidence of family firms across countries.

Research findings/Insights: We find that in jurisdictions with stronger family ties, family control of listed firms is more prevalent. In addition, this relation is more pronounced in countries with weak legal investor protection than that in countries with strong legal investor protection.

Theoretical/Academic implications: Our findings make an important contribution to the literature on the role of informal institutions in shaping family firm status. Moreover, our paper is the first to empirically investigate the effect of informal family ties on the incidence of family firms across investor protection regimes, and thus it contributes toward a better understanding of the channel through which families affect social and economic outcomes.

 

Keywords: Family firms; family ties; family values; investor protection; corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32; G38; Z10

Keywords: Family Firms, family ties, family values, investor protection, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Moshirian, Fariborz and Pham, Peter Kien and Vo, Thi Thuy Anh and Nguyen, Thuy Thi, Informal Family Ties and Family Control Around the World (August 11, 2024). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
551
RANK
759,678
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies