Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consolidated Tax Reporting, Corporate Tax Burden, and Risk Taking: Evidence from China

60 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Kimberly S. Krieg

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

Yu Ruan

Southeast University

Liangliang Wang

Southeast University

Kaishu Wu

University of Waterloo

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of the disallowance of consolidated tax reporting (CTR) on a firm’s tax burden and its engagement in corporate risk taking. Relying on a Chinese setting, where CTR is strictly disallowed, we find that business groups in China exhibit a higher level of tax burden compared to standalone firms. Mechanism analyses show that this effect is largely driven by the inability to offset the current losses and certain expenses of some group members against the current profits of other group members and the burden to pay taxes on unrealized internal profits. Cross-sectional analyses show that the difference in the tax burden between the two types of organizational structures increases, as the number of group members increases and as the performance volatility increases. We also find that our main result weakens when the parent accounts for more of the group’s operations. In addition, our analyses on corporate risk-taking show that business groups incur less risk than standalone firms, which is mainly attributed to the impact of loss carryforwards. Overall, our research contributes to the literature examining the role of organizational structure on firms’ tax burdens and adds to the literature studying the consequences of asymmetry in the taxation of profits and losses. Overall, our work has important implications for policy makers in defining the tax base of business groups.

Keywords: Consolidated Tax Reporting, Corporate Tax Burden, Risk Taking, China, Business Groups

Suggested Citation:

Krieg, Kimberly S. and Ruan, Yu and Wang, Liangliang and Wu, Kaishu, Consolidated Tax Reporting, Corporate Tax Burden, and Risk Taking: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies