Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Subsidies and Managerial Slack: Evidence from China

47 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University

Mabel D Costa

Durham University

Kun Su

Northwestern Polytechnic University (NPU)

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Abstract

This paper examines the association between government subsidies and firm-level managerial slack for a sample of Chinese listed firms over the period 2005–2018. Managerial slack is the excess spending, compensation, and perquisites consumed by managers at the expense of shareholders’ wealth. Measuring managerial slack as the abnormal administrative expenses following Fang, He, and Conyon (2018a) and Fang, He, and Shaw (2018b), we find that government subsidies are positively associated with firms’ managerial slack. This positive association, however, is attenuated for firms with strong internal control and firms headquartered in regions with a high level of social trust. Further analysis demonstrates that the positive association is driven by firms receiving non-tax-related government subsidies. Our main result remains robust after addressing endogeneity concerns. Finally, we show that the stock market penalizes subsidy-receiving firms with high managerial slack.

Keywords: Government subsidy, managerial slack, China, state-owned enterprises, internal control, social trust

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Haiyan and Costa, Mabel D and Su, Kun and Habib, Ahsan, Government Subsidies and Managerial Slack: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
889,053
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies