Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Expectations: How Assurance Level and Sustainability Reporting Approach Affect Investor and Auditor Confidence

50 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey Hales

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Roshan K. Sinha

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: April 4, 2024

Abstract

We use a set of experiments to examine how a company's choice of assurance level (reasonable versus limited) affects nonprofessional investor confidence in sustainability information disclosed under two different reporting approaches (investor-oriented and broad-stakeholder) and how these choices contribute to investor-auditor expectation gaps. We find that nonprofessional investors distinguish limited from reasonable assurance, regardless of reporting approach. However, when we compare investor to auditor confidence, results reveal significant expectation gaps with limited but not reasonable assurance, suggesting investors fail to sufficiently adjust for the lower level of assurance that a limited-assurance engagement provides. These results are not sensitive to reporting approach. Our findings have implications for future research on ESG assurance, audit firms as they seek to expand their assurance services on sustainability disclosures, and policy makers around the world as they consider whether to mandate assurance over sustainability disclosures and, if so, at what level.

Keywords: ESG reports, ESG assurance, expectation gap, reporting approach, confidence assessments

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Hales, Jeffrey and Lambert, Tamara A. and Sinha, Roshan, Managing Expectations: How Assurance Level and Sustainability Reporting Approach Affect Investor and Auditor Confidence (April 4, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4784726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4784726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Guy , A Winters
The Expectation Gap Standards: Progress, Implementation Issues, and Research Opportunities Posted: 1993
ESG reporting and attestation: A roadmap for audit practitioners Posted: 2021
H S Asay , J Hales , C Hinds , K Rupar
Nonprofessional Investor Judgments: Linking Dependent Measures to Constructs , volume 98 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2023
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction on social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Load more
1 Citations
Paul Sakchuenyos , Eka Nugraha Tan , Pei‐Jia Lum , Roger Simnett
The Impacts of Disclosing Internal Controls, Board Oversight and Assurance by Different Types of External Assurers on Investors' Use of Sustainability Information
Accounting & Finance Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
129,684
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies