Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religiosity and the Use of Performance-Based Compensation

Accepted for publication in the American Business Review

34 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 2 Mar 2025

Edward Kim

Western Michigan University

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how a firm’s religious culture affects the structure of CEO compensation. I consider two characteristics of religious cultures that are likely to have implications on executive compensation structure – the sensitivity of economic agents to financial rewards (extrinsic motivation) and the extent to which agents’ actions can affect future outcomes (locus of control). I hypothesize that religious cultures’ attitudes toward both characteristics will lead to less use of performance-based compensation in religious cultures and show evidence consistent with the hypothesis. Further tests show that the relationship is primarily driven by religious cultures’ perception of extrinsic motivation. Using corporate headquarters relocations as a shock to a firm’s culture, I show that the relationship is causal.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, CEO Compensation, Corporate Culture, Religion, Incentive Pay

JEL Classification: G30, J33, M12, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Edward, Religiosity and the Use of Performance-Based Compensation (October 31, 2024). Accepted for publication in the American Business Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4784561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4784561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
L A Bebchuk
The Case for Increasing Shareholder Power
Harvard Law Review , volume 118 , p. 835 - 914 Posted: 2005
H Chen , H H Huang , G J Lobo , C Wang
Religiosity and the Cost of Debt
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 70 , p. 70 - 85 Posted: 2016
C Frydman , D Jenter
CEO Compensation. Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 2 , p. 75 - 102 Posted: 2010
P Gompers , J L Ishii , A Metrick
Corporate Governance and Equity Prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 107 - 155 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
RANK
848,823
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies