Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Disclosure under Regulatory Fragmentation

66 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 17 Nov 2024

Jonathan Kalodimos

Oregon State University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

Regulatory fragmentation occurs when multiple regulatory bodies promulgate overlapping regulations. This overlap creates inconsistencies, inefficiencies, and unclear objectives but also results in enhanced domain specific scrutiny. Empirically, I find that regulatory fragmentation is associated with an increase in the discussion of uncertainty, litigation, and overall negativity in financial disclosures. The marginal effect of regulatory fragmentation is magnified with more exposure to agencies, especially enforcement agencies, as well as heightened levels of uncertainty and litigation. In response to the heightened uncertainty, I find that companies improve the quality of their textual disclosures and reduce accounting complexity, which is consistent with the informativeness view of financial reporting. At low levels of uncertainty and litigation risk, companies increase the readability of their text disclosures in response to regulatory fragmentation, but at high levels of uncertainty and litigation risk, companies increase the quantity of disclosure to the detriment of readability. Finally, at the time of earnings announcement the increase in bid-ask spreads is tempered by regulatory fragmentation, suggesting a reduction in information asymmetry from enhanced scrutiny. These results suggest that overlapping regulation may confer some degree of benefit to shareholders through the additional scrutiny from domain specific regulators, but that benefit must be weighed against the considerable costs to companies from regulatory fragmentation.

Keywords: Regulatory fragmentation, financial disclosure readability, accounting reporting complexity, government exposure

JEL Classification: G18, G38, H11, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kalodimos, Jonathan, Financial Disclosure under Regulatory Fragmentation (November 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4785824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4785824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports Posted: 2022
Daphne M Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Jeffrey L Hoopes
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Sharad Asthana , Steven Balsam , Srinivasan Sankaraguruswamy
Differential Response of Small versus Large Investors to 10-K Filings on EDGAR
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2004
Anne Beyer , Daniel A Cohen , Thomas Z Lys , Beverly R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
153,959
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies