Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance Playbook for Climate Standard-Setting

26 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: April 4, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, efforts to combat climate change at the international and national levels have increased, and a number of previously small, private, not-for-profit climate groups have found themselves as potentially mainstream players in influencing corporate operations and the global geopolitical economy. This is especially true of organizations focused on climate standard-setting for companies and governments, as some of those standards, previously voluntary, start finding themselves in legislation, regulation, and treaties. The increased impact of their work, testament in part to the work’s importance and timeliness, has however increased the scrutiny of these organizations’ strategies and operations. This report, aimed at providing practical advice for improved governance of climate standard-setting organizations, draws on over a dozen Chatham House-style conversations with key players in the area, including climate activists, funders, investors, board members, and managers. The report introduces a playbook of best practices for better strategic clarity and procedural legitimacy in climate standard-setting.

Keywords: Climate change, corporate reporting, governance, standard-setting

JEL Classification: G34, K20, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Karthik, The Governance Playbook for Climate Standard-Setting (April 4, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4786579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4786579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
986
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,266
RANK
53,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies