Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Contours of Dispute Resolution in the International Tax World: Comparing the OECD Multilateral Instrument and the Proposed EU Arbitration Directive

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 3/4 ; 16 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1x9g90e

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Sriram Govind

Independent

Laura Turcan

Independent

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

This article considers the most significant changes proposed in the Multilateral Instrument and the EU Arbitration Directive and compares their scope and effectiveness along with their interaction so as to point out issues and to propose recommendations for more uniformly acceptable solutions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: dispute resolution, MLI, Tax Dispute Resolution Directive, arbitration

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Govind, Sriram and Turcan, Laura, The Changing Contours of Dispute Resolution in the International Tax World: Comparing the OECD Multilateral Instrument and the Proposed EU Arbitration Directive (February 22, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 3/4 ; 16 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1x9g90e, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787588
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies