Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends in Structuring Brazilian Mergers and Acquisitions: The Key Aspects of the Tax Amortization of Goodwill

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 6 (special issue) ; 8 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/nbkq27

Posted: 11 Apr 2024

Ricardo Seiti Ono

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Doris Canen

Independent

Date Written: May 3, 2017

Abstract

Most mergers and acquisitions in Brazil are structured to enable the tax amortization of goodwill. This article examines how goodwill is treated in Brazil following the changes introduced by the adoption of international accounting standards and to the tax regulations, as well as considering the implications of recent court decisions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: merger, acquisition, amortization, accounting principles, case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Seiti Ono, Ricardo and Canen, Doris, Trends in Structuring Brazilian Mergers and Acquisitions: The Key Aspects of the Tax Amortization of Goodwill (May 3, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 6 (special issue) ; 8 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/nbkq27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787606
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
83
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies