Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thoughts on the Potential Effects of the OECD/G20 BEPS Action Plan on Collective Investment Vehicles - Part II

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 2 ; p. 98-110; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/139pz6r

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Moritz Scherleitner

Aalto, Business Law

Date Written: January 18, 2017

Abstract

In Part I of the article, the author sets out his thoughts on the potential effects for Collective Investment Vehicles of the relevant Actions in the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan. In Part II, the author continues his examination of the potential implications of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative for collective investment vehicles.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, BEPS Project (OECD), investment fund, beneficial ownership, transparency

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Scherleitner, Moritz, Thoughts on the Potential Effects of the OECD/G20 BEPS Action Plan on Collective Investment Vehicles - Part II (January 18, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 2 ; p. 98-110; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/139pz6r, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
59
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies