Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Negligence Litigation Risk and Tax Avoidance

Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Qiang Cheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Wenjia Yan

Nanjing University

Yijiang Zhao

American University - Kogod School of Business

Date Written: January 7, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of officers’ litigation risk arising from duty of care violations (i.e., negligence) on firms’ tax policy. To isolate this channel, we exploit a setting wherein a Delaware court decision established a precedent that extended the duty of care to officers, thus increasing officers’ negligence litigation risk. We find that affected firms increased tax avoidance after this ruling. This effect is stronger for firms whose officers are more likely to be sued for negligence, firms with lower pre-ruling performance, and firms with weaker governance. Our results suggest that a stronger legal environment in the form of enhanced negligence litigation risk increases tax avoidance.

Keywords: Duty of care, Negligence litigation risk, Judicial precedent, Corporate tax avoidance, Natural experiment

JEL Classification: H21, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Qiang and Yan, Wenjia and Zhao, Yijiang, Managers’ Negligence Litigation Risk and Tax Avoidance (January 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787258
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies