Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Reflections on the Proposed Revisions to the OECD Model and Commentaries, and on the Multilateral Instrument, with Respect to Fiscally Transparent Entities - Part 2

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 10 ; p. 553-567; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/wegf15

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Angelo Nikolakakis

Independent

Stéphane Austry

Independent

John Avery Jones

London School of Economics; Independent

Philip Baker

Field Court Tax Chambers

Peter Blessing

Independent

Robert Danon

Independent

Shefali Goradia

Independent

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

Koichi Inoue

Independent

Jürgen Lüdicke

Independent

Guglielmo Maisto

Independent

Toshio Miyatake

Independent

Kees van Raad

Independent

Richard Vann

Independent

Bertil Wiman

Independent

Date Written: August 14, 2017

Abstract

Part 2 of this article concludes the authors' examination of the OECD's proposals regarding fiscally transparent entities and the provisions of the Multilateral Instrument based on experience in considering and working with similar measures in existing treaties, including a consideration of the relevant interpretive and technical questions, and policy issues.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, OECD Model Commentaries, MLI, transparency, tax treaty, saving clause, CFC, residence, beneficial ownership, PE

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Nikolakakis, Angelo and Austry, Stéphane and Avery Jones, John and Baker, Philip and Blessing, Peter and Danon, Robert and Goradia, Shefali and Hattingh, Johann and Inoue, Koichi and Lüdicke, Jürgen and Maisto, Guglielmo and Miyatake, Toshio and van Raad, Kees and Vann, Richard and Wiman, Bertil, Some Reflections on the Proposed Revisions to the OECD Model and Commentaries, and on the Multilateral Instrument, with Respect to Fiscally Transparent Entities - Part 2 (August 14, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 10 ; p. 553-567; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/wegf15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787540
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies