Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Commentaries on the OECD Model as a Mechanism for Interpretation with Reference to the Swedish Perspective

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 12 ; p. 663-673; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1xctetr

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Katia Cejie

Independent

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

This article considers the question of the importance of the Commentaries on the OECD Model and, in particular, whether an ambulatory or a static approach to changes in the OECD Commentaries should be adopted. The point of departure is international tax law, with an emphasis on the Swedish perspective. Recent case law from the Supreme Administrative Court is also considered.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model Commentaries, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, treaty interpretation, domestic tax law, tax treaty, case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cejie, Katia, The Commentaries on the OECD Model as a Mechanism for Interpretation with Reference to the Swedish Perspective (October 30, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 12 ; p. 663-673; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1xctetr, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787552
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
75
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies