Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Uganda: the Need for a Code of Corporate Governance

102 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Emmanuel A.A Partaker

PostBank Uganda Limited

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

The study sought to test the hypothesis as to whether there is need for a code of corporate governance in Uganda or not by seeking answers to the following research questions, what is the state of Corporate Governance in Uganda?, Is there a need for a code of Corporate Governance in Uganda? and which practical Solutions and proposals can be formulated to solve the corporate governance issues in Uganda?.

The study revealed that Uganda has adopted two approaches to corporate Governance principles, that is, “Comply or Else”, which is the mandatory approach and the “Apply or Explain” which is the voluntary approach.
The study thus recommended that Uganda should adopt one approach for better results, being the mandatory code for enforcing corporate governance principles.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, National Code, Comply or Else,

Suggested Citation:

Partaker, Emmanuel A.A, Corporate Governance in Uganda: the Need for a Code of Corporate Governance (March 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4787362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies