Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Revolution in Automatic Exchange of Information: How is the Information Used and What are the Effects?

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 12 ; p. 688-696; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1hxc2gs

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Lauri Finér

Independent

Antti Tokola

Independent

Date Written: November 10, 2017

Abstract

The effect of automatic exchange of information standards on cross-border tax evasion has attracted only limited attention from academics. This article responds to this by analysing how the OECD Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) affect tax evasion and, therefore, states and taxpayers.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: automatic exchange of information, CRS, FATCA, tax evasion

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Finér, Lauri and Tokola, Antti, The Revolution in Automatic Exchange of Information: How is the Information Used and What are the Effects? (November 10, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 12 ; p. 688-696; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1hxc2gs, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787555
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies