Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Non-Audit Fees on Interest Payments Classification Shifting: Does Internal Governance and Firm Financial Well-being Matter?

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming. (Accepted 8th April 2024). DOI (10.1108/JAAR-05-2023-013)

Posted: 13 Apr 2024 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Mohamed Hessian

Ain Shams University - Faculty of Business

Alaa Zalata

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: April 8, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the effect of non-audit fees (NAF) provisions on interest payments classification shifting. In addition, we investigate to what extent the NAF economic bonding and interest payments classification shifting is contingent on internal governance and firm financial well-being.
This study employed Probit regression using a sample of UK non-financial firms indexed in FT UK (500) over the period from 2009 to 2017.
We find evidence that the economic bonding of NAF between external auditors and their clients is more likely to encourage managers in UK firms to manipulate operating cash flows through interest payment classification shifting. In addition, and interestingly, our results evince that classification-shifting may be the less costly and the soft choice of managers in firms with strong governance and charging higher NAF. Furthermore, we show that financially distressed firms associated with their auditors in purchasing non-audit services are more prone to attempting to manipulate and engage in interest payments classification-shifting. Our result did not provide a significant effect of external auditor tenure on the interest payments classification shifting.
Our findings are subject to the following limitations: First, this study uses a composite index to measure the quality of internal corporate governance. It focuses only on the board of directors, but this index does not reflect other internal governance mechanisms. Second, this study is subject to limited study time due to the implementation of key IFRS standards (IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contract with Customers) from 2018/2019.
This study motivated by the UK’s Financial Reporting Council regulators' pressure on the Big 4 audit firms to move more audit time into main auditing activities, reduce cross-selling to audit clients, and separate their audit practices by 2024. Overall, we provide new evidence that directs a close spotlight on the threats of NAF potentially useful to regulators, shareholders, and investors.
It is motivated by the U.K.’s Financial Reporting Council regulators' pressure on the Big 4 to move more audit firm time into main auditing activities, reduce cross-selling to audit clients, and separate their audit practices by 2024. Overall, we provide new evidence that directs a close spotlight on the threats of NAS potentially useful to regulators, shareholders, and investors.

Keywords: Classification shifting; non-audit fees; corporate governance quality; auditor’s independence.

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hessian, Mohamed and Zalata, Alaa and Hussainey, Khaled, The Effect of Non-Audit Fees on Interest Payments Classification Shifting: Does Internal Governance and Firm Financial Well-being Matter? (April 8, 2024). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming. (Accepted 8th April 2024). DOI (10.1108/JAAR-05-2023-013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4788094
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies