Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Was the Spin-Off of PayPal from eBay a Taxable or a Tax-Free Reorganization?

Journal of Case Research and Inquiry

25 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Gretchen lawrie

California State University

John R. Cooper

California State University

Date Written: April 9, 2024

Abstract

This case study reviews the facts of eBay, Inc.’s spin-off of PayPal, Inc., which presents an opportunity to reinforce the student’s understanding of the complex US corporate reorganization provisions. The case study leads to the question: What would have been the US tax and non-tax consequences of eBay’s spin-off of PayPal for eBay, PayPal, and eBay’s shareholders?

Keywords: PayPal, eBay, corporate reorganization, tax-deferred and taxable reorganizations, tax planning

JEL Classification: K34 Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

lawrie, Gretchen and Cooper, John R., Was the Spin-Off of PayPal from eBay a Taxable or a Tax-Free Reorganization? (April 9, 2024). Journal of Case Research and Inquiry, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4789064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4789064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
E C Baig , G Benninger , G Bensinger , D Benoit , D Wakabayashi
eBay CEO John Donahoe talks PayPal spin-off, mobile pay. USA Today
Move follows battle with Icahn Posted: 2014-03-04
S Bertoni
eBay CEO John Donahoe talks about the PayPal split and future of two companies
PayPal returns today with a market cap larger than eBay Posted: 2014-09-30
C T
Form 10-Q
eBay, Inc. reports fourth quarter and full year 2013 results Posted: 1937
Exhibit 99 Draft Letter to Shareholders Posted: 2014-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
RANK
439,204
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies