Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Carbon Emissions Affect IPO Price Formation and Aftermarket Performance?

60 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024

Hung Neng Lai

National Central University

Cheng-Yi Shiu

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Date Written: April 11, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of carbon emissions on IPO price formation and aftermarket performance. The sample consists of 1,720 new issues that went public between January 2004 and December 2021, with 298 IPOs categorized in the Disclosure Group (covered by the Trucost database) and the remaining 1,422 in the Non-Disclosure Group. Our analysis yields several noteworthy and original findings. Firstly, new issuers with higher carbon emissions tend to have lower initial offer values and experience more negative price revisions. This suggests that underwriters discount brown IPOs to a greater extent, and institutional investors exhibit a disfavorable bias towards such IPOs. Furthermore, the discount and downward price revision on brown IPOs intensify with increased climate change concerns and post the Paris Agreement. Secondly, the total level or intensity of an issuer's carbon emissions does not significantly impact underpricing. Thirdly, new issuers with higher carbon emissions demonstrate higher long-run post-issue abnormal returns compared to those with lower carbon emissions. We conduct several auxiliary tests to verify the robustness of our results against concerns about endogeneity issues. Overall, our findings support the notion that investors demand higher expected returns to invest in shares of brown firms. Consequently, this leads to lower initial offer values, more negative price revisions, and higher long-run post-issue abnormal returns associated with higher carbon risks.

Keywords: Carbon emissions; Initial public offerings; IPO price formation; Long-run performance

JEL Classification: G14; G30; M14; Q51; Q53; Q54

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Hung Neng and Shiu, Cheng-Yi, Do Carbon Emissions Affect IPO Price Formation and Aftermarket Performance? (April 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4790931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4790931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
David Ardia , Keven Bluteau , Kris Boudt , Koen Inghelbrecht
Climate change concerns and the performance of green vs. brown stocks
Management Science , volume 69 , p. 7607 - 7632 Posted: 2023
Jitendra Aswani
Aneesh Raghunandan, and Shiva Rajgopal, 2024a, Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns?
Review of Finance , volume 28 , p. 75 - 106
Jitendra Aswani
Aneesh Raghunandan, and Shiva Rajgopal, 2024b, Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns?-Reply
Review of Finance , volume 28 , p. 111 - 115
Edward D Baker , Thomas J Boulton , V Marcus , Matthew R Braga-Alves , Morey
ESG government risk and international IPO underpricing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
420,501
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies