Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Capital and the Innovative Efficiency of Public Firms

45 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 May 2024

Oleg Gredil

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Ryan H. Peters

Tulane University - Finance & Economics

Sheri Tice

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Vinh C. Tran

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

We study the effects of the cost of capital on innovative efficiency and output. Using idiosyncratic shocks to peer equity valuations, we show that costlier capital increases successful patent applications, future patent citations, and market valuation of future patents. An interquartile increase in the cost of capital increases the innovative efficiency per dollar of intangibles equating to a 6% to 11% increase in average output. In response to adverse shocks to capital cost, firms are observed to curtail their capital and labor investments, reduce sales and fixed assets, yet sustain their R&D spending, suggesting a strategic reallocation of resources to preserve innovation momentum.

Keywords: Innovation, Innovative efficiency, Cost of Capital, Discount-rate shocks, R&D adjustment cost, Investments, Patenting, ESG

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, O3, O34

Suggested Citation:

Gredil, Oleg and Peters, Ryan H. and Tice, Sheri and Tran, Vinh C., The Cost of Capital and the Innovative Efficiency of Public Firms (April 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4790542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4790542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Daniel A Ackerberg , Kevin Caves , Garth Frazer
Identification properties of recent production function estimators
Econometrica , volume 83 , p. 2411 - 2451 Posted: 2015
Philippe Aghion , Bechtold , Stefan , Lea Cassar , Herz , Holger
The causal effects of competition on innovation: experimental evidence
The Journal of Law , volume 34 , p. 162 - 195 Posted: 2018
Heitor Almeida , Fos , Vyacheslav , Hsu , Po-Hsuan , Mathias Kronlund , Kevin Tseng
Do short-term incentives hurt innovation? Posted: 2022
Ashish Arora , Sharon Belenzon , Lia Sheer
Knowledge Spillovers and Corporate Investment in Scientific Research , volume 111 , p. 871 - 898 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
359,199
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies