Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Slipping Controls, Rising Thermometers: Impact of Internal Control Weakness on Greenhouse Gas Emission Performance

Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Nick Haocheng Yang

University of Oklahoma

Zachery (Ziqi) Ma

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 11, 2024

Abstract

The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the US Environmental Protection Agency advocate using accounting information to credibly estimate and report firms’ GHG emissions. As effective internal control ensures the accuracy of accounting information, we examine whether internal control material weaknesses (ICMWs) affect GHG emission performance. We find that firms with ICMWs generally exhibit relatively poor GHG performance, emitting an additional 122,645 metric tons of GHG to generate one million dollars in revenue. Importantly, we find the weaknesses of cost-related information drive the effect. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the effect is more pronounced when ICMWs are pervasive and when a firm has potentially more GHG reporting segments. Focusing on ICMWs on cost-related information, we find firms with such weaknesses are more likely to incur environmental violations in environmental reporting issues. The paper provides novel evidence that traditional accounting information is also applied in GHG emission process, which is always overlooked or considered irrelevant by accounting researchers. We also highlight that how accountants can directly involve in addressing climate issue by providing accurate accounting information.

Keywords: Internal control, Accounting Information, Cost Information Weakness, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Greenhouse Gas Reporting, Environmental Violations

JEL Classification: G30, L20, M10, M4, K32, P28

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Yang, Nick Haocheng and Ma, Zachery (Ziqi), Slipping Controls, Rising Thermometers: Impact of Internal Control Weakness on Greenhouse Gas Emission Performance (April 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791858
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies