Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards of Directors and CEO Dismissal: An Ethical Perspective on Accounting Restatements

Posted: 13 Apr 2024

Ru Gao

The University of Queensland; Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Shijun Guo

Chongqing University; University of Queensland

Daifei (Troy) Yao

Griffith University

Date Written: April 11, 2024

Abstract

Using the comprehensive dismissal data released by Gentry et al. (2021), we investigate whether the incidences of CEO dismissal triggered by financial restatements increase in the recent year due to the increased board’s attention on ethical lapses, and if yes, how board’s characteristics affect board’s overall attitudes towards the restatements, and hence modify the relation between CEO turnover and restatements. We find a positive relation between CEO dismissal and restatement, and firms are more likely to dismissal their CEOs following restatements in the recent period. Furthermore, we find a significant heterogeneity in the board decisions regarding CEO’s dismissal following restatements.

Keywords: Accounting irregularities; Dismissal; Ethics failures

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, J24, L84

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Ru and Guo, Shijun and Yao, Daifei (Troy), Boards of Directors and CEO Dismissal: An Ethical Perspective on Accounting Restatements (April 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791129
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
286
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies