Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Information Channels for Cross-Border M&A: An Analysis of Google's Arrival and Departure in China

31 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2024

Laurie Krigman

Babson College

Yaohua Qin

Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University United International College

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

He Xiao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In recent years, Chinese-listed companies have increasingly pursued mergers and acquisitions (M&A) both domestically and internationally, facing challenges typical of emerging economies such as market inefficiencies and information asymmetry. The lack of robust information channels for cross-border deals has led investors and bidding firms to rely heavily on diverse resources to bridge information gaps. The sudden entry or withdrawal of key information channels, particularly search engines, significantly impacts the information landscape. Prior to 2006, Baidu dominated the Chinese internet search market but had limited reach beyond China. Google's entry in 2006 disrupted this landscape, capturing over 40% of the market share by 2009 before abruptly exiting in 2010. The reliance on Google for international information made its departure particularly impactful. Analyzing Google's entrance and exit from mainland China in the context of M&A highlights the role of information asymmetry and institutional structures, especially pronounced in cross-border deals where Baidu's limitations compared to Google's international reach became apparent.

Keywords: M&A, Google, Information Channels

Suggested Citation:

Krigman, Laurie and Qin, Yaohua and Shams, Syed and Xiao, He, The Importance of Information Channels for Cross-Border M&A: An Analysis of Google's Arrival and Departure in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4791444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Andriosopoulos , S Yang
The impact of institutional investors on mergers and acquisitions in the United Kingdom
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 50 , p. 547 - 561 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
A Boateng , M Du , X Bi , G Lodorfos
Cultural distance and value creation of cross-border M&A: The moderating role of acquirer characteristics
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 63 , p. 285 - 295 Posted: 2019
S Bose , K Minnick , S Shams
Does carbon risk matter for corporate acquisition decisions?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 70 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
RANK
856,579
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies