Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions: The Interplay of Cultural Differences And Prior M&A Activity

47 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2024

Fatos Radoniqi

Whittier College

Roger White

Whittier College

Abstract

We examine the extent to which cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A) are affected by national cultural differences (i.e., cultural distance) and prior M&A activity. Our empirical specification follows the standard gravity framework. We estimate a series of Tobit models using bilateral data that represent 9,398 mergers involving firms in 31 countries over three periods (1995-1998, 2005-2008, and 2017-2020). We find a negative but declining influence of cultural distance on cross-border M&A activity. We also find merger activity involving firms in a particular country pair is positively related to subsequent M&A activity and that this experience counteracts the hindering influence of cultural differences, which becomes insignificant after approximately ten prior mergers. Our findings are robust to sample composition, choice of periods examined, alternative measures of cultural distance, alternative classifications of prior M&A activity, model specification, and estimation technique.

Keywords: Cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A), Cultural Distance, learning by doing/observing practice, World Values Survey (WVS)

Suggested Citation:

Radoniqi, Fatos and White, Roger, Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions: The Interplay of Cultural Differences And Prior M&A Activity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4791446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
B Agcayazi , A M Hibbert , T G Morillon
CEO international background and crossborder M&As
Journal of Banking & Finance Posted: 2024
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
A Alimov , M S Officer
Intellectual property rights and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 360 - 377 Posted: 2017
N Al Rahahleh , P P Wei
Frequent cross-border acquirers from emerging countries and cultural distance: Does the cultural difference of the initial deal matter
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 356 - 373 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
677,550
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies