Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Withdrawal of Management Guidance During the Covid-19 Pandemic

74 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 23 Oct 2024

Aurelius Aaron

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Jian Kang

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Tjomme O. Rusticus

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The Covid-19 pandemic produced unprecedented macroeconomic conditions for many firms. It also provoked a surge in firms withdrawing their prior guidance—a corporate disclosure phenomenon that captured the attention of the media and practitioners. In this paper, we examine how firms’ vulnerability to the pandemic affects their guidance withdrawal. Our empirical analysis reveals that firms more affected by the pandemic are more likely to withdraw guidance, consistent with firms’ unwillingness to publicly commit to targets when facing macroeconomic adversity and uncertainty. The effect is more pronounced for firms facing higher litigation risk and higher product market competition. We also provide evidence that firms with greater exposure to the pandemic are more likely to take the combined action of withdrawing prior guidance and stopping the issuance of new guidance. Moreover, we find that among those firms that withdraw guidance, those that experience a subsequent improvement in performance are more likely to reinstate the guidance. Finally, we find that analyst forecasts show greater downward revisions and larger increases in dispersion following guidance withdrawal relative to a matched control group. Overall, our paper offers early and novel evidence on how the pandemic affects corporate disclosure.

Keywords: Covid-19, voluntary disclosure, management guidance

Suggested Citation:

Aaron, Aurelius and Kang, Jian and Ng, Jeffrey and Rusticus, Tjomme O., Withdrawal of Management Guidance During the Covid-19 Pandemic. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4791875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Amcham China
S. Firms Detail COVID-19 Impact as Recovery Continues in China Posted: 2020
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
RANK
107,499
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies