Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressive R&D Investment in Pre-IPO Years: The Signaling Explanation

Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting

Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Jerry Chen

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Based on the signaling theory, we hypothesize that companies conducting initial public offerings (IPOs) invest heavily in research and development (R&D) to signal their potential growth to investors. We use discretionary R&D expenditures in pre-IPO years as a signal proxy. Using a sample of IPOs from 1980 to 2016, we make the following observations. Firstly, IPO firms have significantly higher discretionary R&D expenditures than control firms in pre-IPO years. Secondly, investors positively view discretionary R&D expenditures in pre-IPO years when assessing the IPO first-day market value and post-IPO stock returns. Thirdly, discretionary R&D expenditures in pre-IPO years lead to increased growth in post-IPO years. Our findings suggest that companies use discretionary R&D expenditures in pre-IPO years as a credible signal of high-growth potential, which successfully boosts sales growth in the post-IPO period. Our evidence highlights the real benefits of R&D investment before going public and extends recent research on the differential role of R&D in earnings management in the context of IPOs.

Keywords: Discretionary R&D, Initial Public Offerings, Signaling, Growth

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jerry, Aggressive R&D Investment in Pre-IPO Years: The Signaling Explanation (March 1, 2024). Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792128
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies