Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Absorptive Capacity and Performance: The Mediating Role of Technological and Organizational Innovation

45 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Antonio Martos-Pedrero

University of Almeria

David Jiménez-Castillo

University of Almeria

Vera Ferrón-Vílchez

University of Granada

Abstract

In spite of the growing need for companies to direct their strategies toward corporate social responsibility (CSR), there is little research on their capability for acquiring and applying external knowledge that enables them to effectively develop this strategic orientation. This study examines the concept of ‘CSR absorptive capacity’ to determine to what extent it can affect business performance, as well as to understand the role played by organizational and technological innovation in this association, which have traditionally been closely linked to absorptive capacity. The data collected from a sample of agrifood companies showed that potential and realized CSR absorptive capacity can contribute directly to improving their performance and indirectly through those innovation processes. These findings also reveal that there are no significant differences between the indirect effects of these innovations in the relationships between potential and realized CSR absorptive capacity and performance.

Keywords: absorptive capacity, Corporate social responsibility, organizational innovation, Technological innovation, performance, agrifood industry

Suggested Citation:

Martos-Pedrero, Antonio and Jiménez-Castillo, David and Ferrón-Vílchez, Vera, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Absorptive Capacity and Performance: The Mediating Role of Technological and Organizational Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4792185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A Adriansyah , A Z Afiff
Organizational culture, absorptive capacity, innovation performance and competitive advantage: An integrated assessment in Indonesian banking industry , volume 9 , p. 70 - 86 Posted: 2015
Afcha Chavez , S M
Behavioural additionality in the context of regional innovation policy in Spain
Innovation , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 110 Posted: 2011
G M Ahimbisibwe , S K Nkundabanyanga , G Nkurunziza , D Nyamuyonjo
Knowledge absorptive capacity: do all its dimensions matter for export performance of SMEs?
World Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and Sustainable Development , volume 12 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
S S Alam , A B Bhuiyan , F M Jani , C A C Wel
The impact of innovation on growth and performance of processed food SMEs in Malaysia
International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management , volume 20 , issue 1-2 , p. 61 - 79 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies