Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Talent Pipeline Decline and Audit Outcomes

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4792026

52 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 6 May 2024

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Eric Krause

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 26, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the implications of the decline in accounting graduates on audit firms' recruitment and audit outcomes. Using granular data from Revelio Labs, we identify accounting graduates, their alma mater, and the firm offices that hire them. Surprisingly, recruiting by audit firms did not decline. Instead, the decline in graduates prompted firms to recruit more from non-target universities and reduce selectivity at their traditional target universities. We propose two audit office-level measures to capture these recruiting shifts and examine their association with audit outcomes. We find that greater recruiting shifts are associated with lower audit quality. The adverse outcomes are more pronounced among offices with more new engagements and complex clients, suggesting that the recruiting shifts carry higher costs when human capital is more critical. This study fills the gap in empirical evidence on the decrease in accounting graduates by detailing its impact on firms' recruiting and audit outcomes.

Keywords: Labor, labor shortage, recruiting, human capital, auditors, audit quality, Revelio, LinkedIn

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, J24, O15

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi and Krause, Eric, The Accounting Talent Pipeline Decline and Audit Outcomes (September 26, 2024). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4792026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4792026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
I Abramova
Labor Supply and M&A in the Audit Market
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 101700 Posted: 2024
Aicpa
AICPA Trends Report Posted: 2023
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
J M Barrios
Occupational licensing and accountant quality: Evidence from the 150-hour rule
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 43 Posted: 2022
Load more
4 Citations
Junsheng Zhang , Yue Qi , Yaoqing Song , Yamin Zeng
Auditor compensation and accounting firm performance
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 214 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Kim Hutten , Bob van Kuijck
Beïnvloeden generatieverschillen het belang van sociale waarden bij de keuze voor het accountantsberoep?
Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 25 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Thameenah Abrahams , Masibulele Phesa
Evaluating the Decline Registered Auditors Will Have on the Future of the Assurance Industry in South Africa
Risks , volume 13 , issue 9 , p. 171 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Thameenah Abrahams , Masibulele Phesa
Analysing the Factors Contributing to the Decline of Auditors Globally and Avenue for Future Research: A Scoping Review
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 18 , issue 7 , p. 363 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,047
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,567
RANK
49,096
4 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies