Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What can an audit regulator do to improve welfare?

35 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Martin C. Schmalz

CEPR; University of Oxford - Finance; CESifo; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

William R. Zame

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 6, 2024

Abstract

We model the strategic interaction between a firm manager and its auditor. The manager’s type reflects his propensity to misstate runnings. The auditor is more likely to detect misstatements if she exerts more costly effort. The regulator influences the parameters of the game. Depending on the type of equilibrium, the regulator may be able to influence audit quality or financial reporting quality, but cannot do both — and may not be able to do either.

Keywords: auditing, regulation, misstatement, fraud, restatement

JEL Classification: D21, G38, K22, M41, M42, M48, M52

Suggested Citation:

Schmalz, Martin C. and Schmalz, Martin C. and Zame, William R., What can an audit regulator do to improve welfare? (March 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Overview: implications / follow-on questions
Is there a justification for an audit regulator in this model? What is it?
Can the regulator observe / infer / aCect the type of equilibrium? 3. Reflection of the impact of issuer, auditor, objectives on • Audit quality • Financial statement reporting quality
Interpretation of inspection findings
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
612
RANK
605,468
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies