Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entrepreneurial Finance and Sustainability: Do Institutional Investors Impact the ESG Performance of SMEs?

Journal of Business Venturing Insights, forthcoming


37 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Wolfgang Drobetz

University of Hamburg

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jan P. Hackmann

TUM School of Management,Technical University of Munich

Paul P. Momtaz

Syracuse University - Whitman School of Management

Date Written: April 12, 2024

Abstract

Institutional investors improve the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Our difference-in-differences framework shows that the backing from private equity and venture capital funds leads to an increase in SMEs' externally validated ESG scores compared to their matched non-investor-backed peers. Consistent with "ESG-as-insurance" theory, the ESG performance of SMEs with a higher probability of failure is more likely to benefit from the backing of institutional investors. This positive effect is heterogeneous; while SMEs with high ex-ante ESG performance tend to further improve their ESG performance following institutional investor backing, SMEs with low ex-ante ESG performance are unlikely to implement any improvements. Entrepreneurial finance seems to help sustainable entrepreneurs to develop into "sustainability champions," while neglecting the betterment of non-sustainable SMEs.

Keywords: Entrepreneurial Finance, Venture Capital, Private Equity, Sustainability, Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) JEL Codes: G24, L26, M13, Q01, Q56

JEL Classification: G24, L26, M13, Q01, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Drobetz, Wolfgang and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Hackmann, Jan Philipp and Momtaz, Paul P., Entrepreneurial Finance and Sustainability: Do Institutional Investors Impact the ESG Performance of SMEs? (April 12, 2024). Journal of Business Venturing Insights, forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4792339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
A Anand , P Argade , R Barkemeyer , F Salignac
Trends and patterns in sustainable entrepreneurship research: A bibliometric review and research agenda
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 36 , issue 3 Posted: 2021
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
K.-H Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , C C Kwok , Y Zheng
Does corporate social responsibility reduce the costs of high leverage? evidence from capital structure and product market interactions
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 100 , p. 135 - 150 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,742
RANK
167,622
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies