Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Less Is More: Peer Learning from Nondisclosures

72 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 5 Feb 2025

Mustafa Ahci

Erasmus Univeristy Rotterdam School of Management

Date Written: April 11, 2024

Abstract

I investigate whether competitors can extract valuable insights from redacted peer disclosures, influencing their investment decisions. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission mandates public firms to disclose material contracts while allowing them to redact parts of contracts due to proprietary reasons. While firms redact contracts to hinder competitor learning, the act of censoring signals to rivals that valuable information is hidden, strengthening their motive to uncover concealed information. Using the EDGAR log files, I find that redacted material contracts receive up to 57% more downloads than their nonredacted counterparts, indicating greater attention and information demand for redacted documents. In line with learning from redacted disclosures, competitors realign their portfolios and expand into the markets of redacting peers. Using two distinct quasi-natural experiments as shocks to competitor-specific attention, I document a diminished learning effect, highlighting focused attention as a key mechanism for competitor learning. However, redacting firms appear to anticipate the attention mechanism and react by further obfuscating disclosures with redacted contracts to complicate competitor learning even further. Overall, the study contributes to the literature on peer effects and provides insights into firms' strategic disclosure practices and their interplay with disclosure processing costs.

Keywords: material contracts, redacted contracts, investments, proprietary costs, peer effects, disclosure processing costs, strategic disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Ahci, Mustafa, Less Is More: Peer Learning from Nondisclosures (April 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4792479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
M Ahci , P Joos
Text-Based Innovation Measure and Firm Performance
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2023
M Ahci , T Martens , C J Sextroh
Simultaneous information releases and capital market feedback: Evidence from patent Tuesdays
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
J J Anton , D A Yao
The sale of ideas: Strategic disclosure, property rights, and contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 2002
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
334,632
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies