Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategical reaction to environmental regulation: The combined effect on earnings management and environmental information disclosure

53 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Hao Gao

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Yuanyu Qu

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - School of Banking and Finance

Chenyu Wang

Renmin University of China - School of Finance

Weixing Wu

Capital University of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 20, 2024

Abstract

We investigate firms’ strategical reactions to the environmental regulation employing the enforcement of China’s New Environmental Protection Law (NEPL). In the short term, polluting firms conduct more earnings management and the effect is more evident for those under performance pressure. In the long term, environmental regulation facilitates environmental information disclosure, which is strengthened by better external governance. We also find that NEPL has an immediate negative effect on firms’ value but helps decrease their long-horizon price crash risk. Our study highlights the combined effects of environmental regulation on firm decisions and outcomes in different horizons.

Keywords: Environmental regulation, Polluting firms, Earnings management, Environmental information disclosure

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K32

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Hao and Qu, Yuanyu and Wang, Chenyu and Wu, Weixing, Strategical reaction to environmental regulation: The combined effect on earnings management and environmental information disclosure (August 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4794282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4794282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
P Aghion , A Dechezleprêtre , D Hemous , R Martin , J Van Reenen
Carbon taxes, path dependency, and directed technical: Evidence from the auto industry
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2016
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
L E Beardsley , R J Robinson , A P Wong
What's my target? Individual analyst forecasts and last-change earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 Posted: 2021
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
635,835
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies