Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-CEO Executives and the Effects of Serving on Outside Boards

53 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 27 Apr 2024

Md Raihan Uddin Chowdhury

Illinois State University

Alex Holcomb

Appalachian State University

Feixue Xie

University of Texas at El Paso - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect on focal firm performance of non-CEO executives (NCEs) serving on an outside board. We find that firms with NCEs serving on outside boards experience lower ROA and lower profit margins than firms with NCEs who do not serve on outside boards. We find that these performance effects begin after an NCE assumes an external board position, are not subsumed by busy boards or busy CEO effects, and persist for at least a year after the NCE assumes the role. We also document that the negative effects are monotonically increasing with the number of NCEs serving on outsider boards and the number of boards on which those NCEs serve. Finally, we show that there may be some benefits to NCE board activity, as the negative effects are somewhat mitigated when the NCEs sit on their own firm’s board.

Keywords: Non-CEO Executives, Managerial Incentives, Boards of Directors, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G39, L25

Suggested Citation:

Chowdhury, Md Raihan Uddin and Holcomb, Alex and Xie, Feixue, Non-CEO Executives and the Effects of Serving on Outside Boards (November 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
The Journal of Finance , volume LXVI Posted: 2011
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty , volume 131 Posted: 2016
B D Baysinger , A Zardkoohi
Technology, residual claimants, and corporate control
Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 339 - 349 Posted: 1986
B W Benson , W N D Iii , T R Davidson , H Wang
Do busy directors and CEOs shirk their responsibilities? Evidence from mergers and acquisitions
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 55 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
697,608
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies