Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Report of the Proceedings of the Eighth Assembly of the International Association of Tax Judges Held in Helsinki on 6 and 7 October 2017

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 7 ; 16 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3wyygvy

Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Bob Michel

Independent

Date Written: June 22, 2018

Abstract

This report summarizes the proceedings of the Eighth Assembly of the International Association of Tax Judges, which was held in Helsinki on 6 and 7 October 2017. On the agenda were six substantive sessions. The proceedings were closed by a presentation on an ?exotic? topic.The following topics were covered: Issues in commercial and tax accounting; The use of foreign case law by courts; Tax procedures in Finland; Recent case law regarding mutual agreements; VAT case law on services related to websites and the internet; Obtaining evidence and information: common law and civil law jurisdictions; and "Exotic" topic: bear-watching in Finland.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax accounting, procedural law, case law, MAP, VAT, electronic services, internet, VAT rate, disclosure

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Michel, Bob, Report of the Proceedings of the Eighth Assembly of the International Association of Tax Judges Held in Helsinki on 6 and 7 October 2017 (June 22, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 7 ; 16 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3wyygvy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795821
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies