Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation of an Interposed Company to Pass on Income

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 12 ; 7 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/311h72x

Posted: 28 May 2024

Saurabh Jain

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: October 15, 2018

Abstract

This article argues that an interposed company may be under a contractual obligation to pass on income to a resident of a third state. Such a company would still possess dominion over the income. However, the absence of such an obligation is inconclusive for determining whether an interposed company is a conduit.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: beneficial ownership, residence

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Saurabh and Prebble KC, John, Beneficial Ownership and the Contractual Obligation of an Interposed Company to Pass on Income (October 15, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 12 ; 7 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/311h72x, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795686
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
109
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies