Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Reporting and the International Allocation of Taxing Rights

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 209-217; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/zmn2tn

Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Michelle Hanlon

Independent

Date Written: March 22, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the author examines the OECD/BEPS country-by-country reporting (CbCR) requirements and the disconnect between CbCR data and the arm's length principle, discusses the potential benefits and costs of country-by-country data, and concludes by considering the possible implications of CbCR for the international allocation of taxing rights.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: CbCR, arm's length principle, allocation of taxing rights

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle, Country-by-Country Reporting and the International Allocation of Taxing Rights (March 22, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 209-217; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/zmn2tn, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795717
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies