Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change Exposure and the Value Relevance of Earnings and Book Values of Equity

Journal of Sustainable Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2024

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Joseph Micale

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Donna Rapaccioli

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether a firm’s exposure to climate change, as proxied by disclosures during quarterly earnings conference calls, provides forward-looking information to investors regarding the long-term association of stock prices with current earnings and the book values of equity. We observe that, following a key regulatory mandate around the formation of the cap-and-trade program to reduce emissions related to climate change, firms’ climate change exposure decreases the association between current earnings and stock prices while increasing the relevance of book values of equity (i.e., historical earnings). However, these relationships flip when the sentiment around climate change exposure is negative, suggesting that the risks related to climate change exposure provide forward-looking information to investors when they evaluate the ability of current earnings to predict firm values. Such a relationship is stronger for new economy firms and is sensitive to conservative accounting. We also observe that the inclusion of climate change disclosure to our models improves the joint ability of earnings and book values to predict stock prices.

Keywords: Climate Change, Value Relevance, Earnings, Market Pricing, Conservatism, New Economy

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Micale, Joseph and Rapaccioli, Donna, Climate Change Exposure and the Value Relevance of Earnings and Book Values of Equity (April 15, 2024). Journal of Sustainable Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S References Balachandran , P Mohanram
Is the decline in value relevance of accounting driven by increased conservatism?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , p. 272 - 301 Posted: 2011
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale effects in capital markets-based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3/4 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in Value Relevance of Accounting Information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
576,053
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies