Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership at OpenAI: From the Perspective of Enterprise Foundation Governance

55 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Frederik Hovmark Pedersen

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

In November 2023, the Board of Directors of OpenAI fired its popular CEO, Sam Altman, because it had lost confidence in him, and concluded that he was hindering the board’s ability to properly exercise its duties. The decision outraged employees and investors, including Microsoft which has a $13bn investment in OpenAI, and ignited a brief governance crisis. After mounting pressure from these key stakeholders, the crisis ended with Sam Altman returning as CEO and most board members resigning. The turmoil brought the importance and impacts of corporate governance to the attention of business and startup communities alike, and drew attention to OpenAI’s somewhat unusual governance structure: a self-owning and self-governing non-profit organisation controlling a for-profit company, where investors have a contractual claim on a portion of the profits but no formal control, and the ultimate decision-making authority is the board of the non-profit, which appoints and removes itself, has no personal financial interest, and has a fiduciary obligation to the non-profits mission of building general-purpose artificial intelligence that safely benefits humanity. OpenAI’s structure resembles the ownership found at enterprise foundations, and the case thus provides an interesting opportunity to study this relatively rare type of organisational control. This case therefore seeks to understand the corporate governance at OpenAI and the turmoil in November 2023, to deduct what other companies and boards can learn from it. The case shows that although corporate governance of OpenAI has been intentionally designed to advance the mission and protect this from financial obligations, in particular the short-term interests of investors, de facto control resides with Microsoft, undermining the formal governance structure. The case demonstrates that foundation-like ownership can under certain extreme circumstances be vulnerable, and might not be a good fit for a startup like OpenAI with significant capital requirements and enormous commercial potential.

Keywords: OpenAI, corporate governance, nonprofit ownership, enterprise foundation

Suggested Citation:

Pedersen, Frederik Hovmark, Ownership at OpenAI: From the Perspective of Enterprise Foundation Governance (April 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
REFERENCES About
E P Aprill , R C Loui , J R Horwitz
Board Control of a Charity's Subsidiaries: The Saga of OpenA
Los Angeles Legal Studies Research , volume 182 Posted: 2024
Anthropic's CEO says why he quit his job at OpenAI
Does OpenAI's Non-Profit Ownership Structure Actually Matter? Forbes Posted: 2023
D Barts
Microsoft says it does not own any portion of OpenAI Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
732
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,839
RANK
79,911
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies