Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project on the Task for Developing Countries of Applying the Arm's Length Principle in Practice

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 325-330; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1e4t5ty

Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Richard Collier

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: March 20, 2018

Abstract

This article considers the practical implications of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project regarding the application of the arm's length principle by developing countries.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, BEPS Project (OECD), developing countries

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Collier, Richard, The Impact of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project on the Task for Developing Countries of Applying the Arm's Length Principle in Practice (March 20, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 325-330; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1e4t5ty, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795737
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies