Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of a Debt-Earnings Covenant on Optimal Capital Structure and Firm Value

31 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Michi Nishihara

The University of Osaka

Takashi Shibata

Tokyo Metropolitan University

Benoit Chevalier-Roignant

EM Lyon (Ecole de Management de Lyon) - Emlyon Business School

Date Written: April 12, 2024

Abstract

This paper develops a capital structure model with a financial covenant that sets an upper limit on a firm’s debt-earnings ratio. Shareholders reduce their debt level or default when this ratio exceeds the upper limit. In the model, firm value, debt repayment policy, and capital structure are derived explicitly. For low levels of the limit, shareholders prefer to reduce their debt every time the ratio exceeds the limit. Then, the covenant removes the cost of debt, whereas it decreases equity value by restricting shareholders. Because of this trade-off, the covenant can improve firm value. The covenant can also improve firm value by suppressing the leverage ratchet effect and removing the restriction on future debt issuance. With the covenant, the firm can begin with high leverage to take advantage of the absence of cost of debt. The covenant tends to improve firm value for higher bankruptcy cost and volatility, and the additional debt channel can greatly improve firm value for higher growth and tax rates. These results are consistent with empirical evidence and support the optimal contracting hypothesis regarding debt covenants.

Keywords: debt covenant, capital structure, real options, agency problem

JEL Classification: G13, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Nishihara, Michi and Shibata, Takashi and Chevalier-Roignant, Benoit, Effects of a Debt-Earnings Covenant on Optimal Capital Structure and Firm Value (April 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Admati , P Demarzo , M Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
The leverage ratchet effect
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
M Arnold
Managerial cash use, default, and corporate financial policies
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 2014
A Bensoussan , B Chevalier-Roignant , A Rivera
Does performance-sensitive debt mitigate the debt overhang?
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 131 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
524,565
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies