Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overseeing Private Rulemaking: Evidence from SEC Review of SRO Rules

Forthcoming, University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law (2025)

72 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2024 Last revised: 14 Dec 2024

James Fallows Tierney

Chicago-Kent College of Law - Illinois Institute of Technology

Date Written: December 14, 2024

Abstract

Securities markets rely heavily on private rulemaking by self-regulatory organizations (SROs) such as FINRA and the stock exchanges, supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SRO-centric model is marred by problems with democratic accountability and inherent conflicts of interest, where insiders might prioritize private benefits over public needs. For these and related reasons, the SRO model is in a moment of transition—with increasing judicial scrutiny of SROs’ roles and powers within separation-of-powers and administrative-law frameworks. Scholars, meanwhile, know little about how the SROs and SEC jointly producerules for capital markets. Previous securities regulation scholarship has focused on specific aspects of SRO rulemaking, such as the stock exchanges’ corporate governance rules, largely without addressing systemic issues in the production and SEC oversight of SRO rules. Yet SRO rulemaking practices have important consequences for the regulation of securities markets, including the role of procedural reform on regulatory effectiveness and public participation.

This article’s approach uses a comprehensive new dataset drawn from every issue of the Federal Register from 2000 to 2023, providing a unique macro perspective that reveals significant inefficiencies and oversight challenges in the current system. By employing a political economy lens, this study focuses on procedural inadequacies while aligning them with policy concerns about accountability, oversight, and democratic control over regulation. This article argues that the SRO rulemaking system is not functioning well, producing a firehose of securities law that is at once a massive drain on agency resources, as well as an impediment to robust public participation in the rules governing capital markets. After the Dodd-Frank Act, most rule change proposals go effective immediately upon filing unless the SEC takes action to halt effectiveness, and need not require preapproval.

The dominance of this mode of SRO rulemaking, I suggest, alters both the incentives as well as opportunities the SEC has to engage in robust oversight. I also find evidence that the SEC's oversight responds to a judicial-review shock. I assess the Dodd-Frank reforms under a framework that recognizes the tradeoff between the costs of deciding and the costs of making wrong decisions, and connect this tradeoff to deeper debates about the role of SROs in our constitutional structure. This project contributes to our understanding of the political economy of capital markets regulation, as well as our understanding of federal oversight of SRO rulemaking.

Keywords: administrative law, securities regulation, self-regulation, stock exchange, capital markets, rulemaking, data science

JEL Classification: G28, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Tierney, James, Overseeing Private Rulemaking: Evidence from SEC Review of SRO Rules (December 14, 2024). Forthcoming, University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4796871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4796871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
reading like it was written by ChatGPT and incorrectly describing the form, who must file it, and the approval process
Sergio Davalos & Ehsan H. Feroz, A Textual Analysis of the US Securities and Exchange Commission's Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases Relating to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 29 INTEL. SYS. ACCT. FIN. MGMT , volume 19 Posted: 2022
Charlotte Alexander , Nicole G Iannarone
Winning, Defined? Text-Mining Arbitration Decisions
using regular expressions to match "79 million-plus unique docket entries and 3 million-plus case-level metadata records" to create dummy variables
Michael Fitzgerald, Introducing Regular Expressions , volume 909 Posted: 2024
Grimmer
Roberts & Stewart, supra note 20 at 178-83 (describing dictionary matching methods generally)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
467,197
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies