Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cutting to the Chase on ESG

16 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Guillaume Burnichon

Paris Dauphine University, Students

Frederic Lepetit

Amundi Institute

Théo Le Guenedal

Amundi Technology

Takaya Sekine

Amundi Institute

Raphaël Semet

University of Paris-Saclay

Lauren Stagnol

Amundi Institute

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

In this study we conduct a thorough analysis of the performance metrics associated with the sub-criteria that comprise environmental, social, and governance (ESG) pillars, focusing on equity markets. Our research reveals that, in a context of growing mistrust in ESG, the aggregation of extra-financial indicators and the reliance on a global ESG score may conceal opportunities at a more granular level. Indeed we showcase that sub-pillars of E, S and G yield more differentiating returns compared to global ESG score, which holds across Eurozone, North America and Emerging Asia since 2021. In North America, the Waste and Biodiversity pillar rallied over the period. In Eurozone and Emerging Asia we point at a dependence from the Emissions and Energy performance on commodity prices: companies with controlled emissions profile outperform their browner peers when commodity prices are high. This emerging selectivity is also reflected in flows. While responsible investment funds experienced a net outflow in 2022 and 2023 for the first time since ESG inception in the early 2010s, the strategies with the highest levels of conviction were the most resilient in terms of flows.

Keywords: ESG, environmental, social, governance, ESG scoring, ESG rating, asset pricing, active management

JEL Classification: G11, G3, Q1

Suggested Citation:

Burnichon, Guillaume and Lepetit, Frederic and Le Guenedal, Théo and Sekine, Takaya and Semet, Raphaël and Stagnol, Lauren, Cutting to the Chase on ESG (April 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4797597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4797597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
506
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
RANK
128,124
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies