Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind the Curtain: Linking CSR Disclosure to Internal Control in Chinese Firms

44 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Man Yuan He

Guangdong University of Technology

Qing Hui

Guangdong University of Technology

Abstract

Literature on CSR disclosure primarily focuses on its economic consequences, but little is known about the underlying motives. We find that voluntary CSR disclosure indicates poorer internal control quality within companies, prompting them to use voluntary CSR reporting as a signaling mechanism. The relationship between voluntary CSR disclosure and poorer internal control quality is more pronounced when audit fees are lower and the tone of CSR reports is more positive. We also find that, compared to non-state-owned enterprises, state-owned enterprises are more likely to engage in voluntary CSR disclosure associated with poorer internal control quality.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, internal control, audit fees, SOE

Suggested Citation:

He, Man Yuan and Hui, Qing, Behind the Curtain: Linking CSR Disclosure to Internal Control in Chinese Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4798776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4798776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
B Asante-Appiah , T A Lambert
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
A Axjonow , J Ernstberger , C Pott
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure on Corporate Reputation: A Non-professional Stakeholder Perspective
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , issue 2 , p. 429 - 450 Posted: 2018
T B Bell , M Causholli , W R Knechel
Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services, and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
S N Bronson , J V Carcello , K Raghunandan
Firm characteristics and voluntary management reports on internal control
Auditing-a Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies