Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Characteristics, Media Attention, and Corporate Environmental Information Disclosure: Evidence from China

32 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

Yixin Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yong Jin

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Hui Liu

Zhengzhou University of Aeronautics

Abstract

Based on upper echelons theory, this paper employs data from Chinese A-share listed companies on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges from 2008 to 2021 to investigate the impact of executive characteristics on the quality of corporate environmental information disclosure (EID) and the moderating role of media attention. Results reveal that male executives, executive age, educational level, and tenure significantly enhance the quality of corporate EID. Online media attention and print media attention also positively moderate the influence of executive age and educational level on the quality of corporate EID, and online media attention moderates the impact of executive tenure. However, media attention has a limited moderating effect on gender. Insights into the synergy between internal and external governance mechanisms for corporations are provided by the findings.

Keywords: ESG, Executive characteristics, corporate environmental information disclosure, Media Attention

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yixin and Jin, Yong and Liu, Hui, Executive Characteristics, Media Attention, and Corporate Environmental Information Disclosure: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4799305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4799305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
F Cerbioni , A Parbonetti
Exploring the effects of corporate governance on intellectual capital disclosure: An analysis of European biotechnology companies
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , p. 791 - 826 Posted: 2007
Chen Pengcheng , Zhou Xiaohua
Media Reporting, Institutional Investor Behavior, and IPO Pricing[J]
Journal of Shanxi University of Finance and Economics , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 26 - 35 Posted: 2016
Gneezy Croson R
Gender differences in preferenceslJ]
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 448 - 474 Posted: 2009
K Fukukawa , W E Shafer , G M Lee
Values and Attitudes Toward Social and Environmental Accountability: a Study of MBA Students[J]
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 71 , p. 381 - 394 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
332
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies