Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do SEC Enforcement Actions Deter Real Earnings Manipulations of Industry Peers?

53 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Zhexu Ai

Wagner College

Date Written: May 21, 2023

Abstract

Evidence has shown that peer firms tend to lower their accrual-based earnings management after announcements of enforcement actions from the United States Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Considering SEC’s recent efforts to punish real earnings management, I examine whether the deterrence effect exists in terms of real earnings management as well. Using ordinary least squares method, I find a significant deterrence effect of SEC enforcement actions on real earnings management, in addition to the previously-discovered deterrence effect on accruals earnings management. In addition, more severe enforcement actions show stronger effect on peer companies. The results are robust to a series of tests that address potential endogeneity concerns and empirical model defects. Surprisingly, the deterrence effect is weaker after the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002, indicating an attenuated effectiveness of the deterrence effect and justifying the importance of the recent trend that SEC pays more attention to punishing real earnings management.

Keywords: SEC, earnings management, enforcement actions, deterrence, industry peer

JEL Classification: G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ai, Zhexu, Do SEC Enforcement Actions Deter Real Earnings Manipulations of Industry Peers? (May 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4800708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4800708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
E Bartov
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation
The Accounting Review , p. 840 - 855 Posted: 1993
E Bartov , D A Cohen
The "numbers game" in the pre-and post-Sarbanes-Oxley eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
791,953
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies