Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Small Talk: How Small Talk and Psychological Ownership Influence Managers’ Communication Defensiveness during Audit Inquiry

48 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2024

Nikki L. MacKenzie

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Date Written: April 19, 2024

Abstract

The audit process requires frequent communication between auditors and client managers. Often,
the most knowledgeable managers are involved in the work relating to an audit inquiry. As such,
they may feel a sense of “ownership” over the related work. When threatened, psychological
ownership can cause individuals to behave defensively, which may pose a challenge for auditors.
Theory suggests that how auditors begin these inquiries (e.g., using small talk) may influence
managers’ behavior. Through two experiments, we find that managers with higher psychological
ownership are more likely to respond defensively to an audit inquiry relating to a potential
inventory obsolescence issue. Additionally, we find that the use of professional small talk
magnifies managers’ defensive responses and some evidence that social small talk helps mitigate
defensive responses. Further, small talk improves the perceived rapport between the manager and
the auditor, compared to no small talk.

Keywords: Auditor-client relationships; audit inquiry; psychological ownership; social small talk; professional small talk; communication defensiveness

Suggested Citation:

MacKenzie, Nikki and Agoglia, Christopher P., The Power of Small Talk: How Small Talk and Psychological Ownership Influence Managers’ Communication Defensiveness during Audit Inquiry (April 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4800083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4800083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
AU Section 500:Audit Evidence Posted: 2021
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
J B Avey , B J Avolio , C D Crossley , F Luthans
Psychological ownership: Theoretical extensions, measurement and relation to work outcomes
Journal of Organizational Behavior: The International Journal of Industrial, Occupational and Organizational Psychology and Behavior , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 191 Posted: 2009
M Baer , G Brown
Blind in one eye: How psychological ownership of ideas affects the types of suggestions people adopt
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 71 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
671
RANK
401,016
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies