Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attributes of Earnings Adjusted for Intangibles Capitalization

51 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Elnaz Basirian

University of Calgary - Department of Accounting

Aneel Iqbal

Thunderbird School of Global Management, Arizona State University

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: September 02, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the impact of pro forma capitalization of in-house intangible investments on earnings attributes: matching, persistence, volatility, and relevance. We find that capitalization is associated with many improved outcomes: expenses align more effectively with contemporaneous revenues, earnings exhibit lower volatility and greater persistence, profits and losses more accurately predict firm survival and failure, respectively, and earnings-to-price ratios become more effective signals for value investing. These findings suggest that capitalization increases the usefulness of earnings for external investors’ decisions. A plausible argument against intangibles capitalization is that their payoffs are uncertain and thus should be immediately expensed. We find that the payoffs from capital expenditures are also nowhere near certain; their uncertainty lies between those for investments in innovation and organizational capital. Our findings support capitalizing internally generated intangibles—consistent with capex—when outlays are expected to yield future benefits, calling for symmetry and consistency in application of deferral accounting principles. 

Keywords: M13, M21, M41 intangibles, matching, earnings, financial statement analysis, valuation intangibles, matching, earnings, financial statement analysis, valuation

JEL Classification: M13, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram and Basirian, Elnaz and Iqbal, Aneel and Srivastava, Anup, Attributes of Earnings Adjusted for Intangibles Capitalization (September 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4800818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4800818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory
Journal of Political Economy , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
C Asness , R Porter , R Stevens
Predicting stock returns using industry-relative firm characteristics
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2000
R Ball
By what criteria do we evaluate accounting? Some thoughts on economic welfare and the archival literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 54 Posted: 2024
R Ball , P Brown
Empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
1 Citations
Lin Li
The Role of Intangible Investment in Predicting Stock Returns: Six Decades of Evidence
Financial Management Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
938
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,032
RANK
57,138
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies