Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivating from the Heights: A Field Experiment on Top Managers Visiting the Front-Line

The Wharton School Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Francisco de Asis Martinez-Jerez

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Joseph Moran

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Economics, Finance, Accounting (EFA); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 20, 2024

Abstract

We analyze the motivational effects of managing by walking around (MBWA), a management style that emphasizes managers’ visits to the rank-and-file of the company. We do so by conducting a field experiment in the retail division of a Latin American bank. We find that branches significantly increase sales productivity following the management visit, an effect that begins prior to the top manager’s visit and persists for at least a month after the event. We also find a higher impact of the visit on high-performing branches. Our results indicate that motivation is a significant channel through which MBWA improves employee performance.

Keywords: Leadership, culture, MBWA, Management by walking around, teams, incentives.

JEL Classification: D23, J53, M50

Suggested Citation:

Casas-Arce, Pablo and Martinez-Jerez, Francisco de Asis and Moran, Joseph and Moran, Joseph, Motivating from the Heights: A Field Experiment on Top Managers Visiting the Front-Line (April 20, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4801743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4801743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J Amsbary , P Staples
Improving Administrator/Nurse Communication: A Case Study of 'Management by Wandering Around
Journal of Business Communication , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 112 Posted: 1991
A Baker , D Larcker , C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
O Bandiera , S Hansen , A Prat , R Sadun
CEO Behavior and Firm Performance
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 4 , p. 1325 - 1369 Posted: 2020
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivation
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 520 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
405,251
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies