Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When shareholders also own stakeholders: The governance effects of cross-holdings along the supply chain

54 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024 Last revised: 12 Apr 2025

Shuran Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: April 12, 2025

Abstract

This paper shows that cross-holdings of supply chain partners motivate strategic voting behavior. The fraction of an institutional investor’s portfolio invested in the firm’s dependent suppliers has a positive effect on its tendency to vote for managerial entrenchment. Difference-in-differences analysis exploiting financial institution mergers supports a causal interpretation. Consistent with investors’ incentives to protect the supply chain relationships, the effect is more pronounced when the expected costs of relationship disruptions imposed on dependent suppliers are higher (e.g., suppliers are affiliated with the current CEO or face greater difficulties in switching customers) and when the investor’s propensity to act on the incentives is higher (e.g., the investor has greater influence on the vote outcome or is more attentive to the firm). Larger cross-holdings are associated with a higher probability of management winning contested votes, fewer incidences of takeovers and CEO turnovers, as well as longer relationship duration. Overall, the results provide new insights into shareholders’ role in shaping firms’ supply chain relationships.

Keywords: institutional investors, proxy voting, managerial entrenchment, cross-holdings, customer-supplier relationships

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G34, L14

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Shuran,
When shareholders also own stakeholders: The governance effects of cross-holdings along the supply chain
(April 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4802141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4802141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
V V Acharya , P F Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
C R Alexander , M A Chen , D J Seppi , C S Spatt
Interim news and the role of proxy voting advice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 4419 - 4454 Posted: 2010
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
M Antón , J Azar , M Gine , L X Lin
Beyond the target: M&A decisions and rival ownership
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 44 - 66 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
407,330
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies