Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Tax Avoidance: The Role of Board Interpersonal Diversity in the United Kingdom

36 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024

Eric Boahen

University of East London

E. C. Mamatzakis

University of London

Lorenzo Neri

University of London - Birkbeck College

Antonella Russo

University of Greenwich

Abstract

This study investigates how the board’s interpersonal diversity is associated with company tax avoidance behaviour. Interpersonal diversity measure is based on the “out of Africa” hypothesis of human origin that evaluates the effects of the ancestral evolution of humankind in shaping individual traits (such as cognitive skills, abilities, and problem-solving approach) and the level of interpersonal trust. A broad literature affirms how diversity in cognitive skills and interpersonal trust enhance board performance and monitoring mechanisms within the board members. In this study, we analyse how the interpersonal diversity of the board member for UK firms over the period 1999 to 2019 mitigates agency problems and tax avoidance. Our main finding shows genetic diversity mitigates tax avoidance. Our results emphasize the importance of the composition of boards with members from diverse genetic backgrounds. This could be encouraged through disclosure requirements, guidelines, or incentives for companies to diversify their board composition.

Keywords: Agency theory, Board members, Interpersonal diversity, Interpersonal trust, Tax avoidance.

Suggested Citation:

Boahen, Eric and Mamatzakis, E. C. and Neri, Lorenzo and Russo, Antonella, Mitigating Tax Avoidance: The Role of Board Interpersonal Diversity in the United Kingdom. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4803888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4803888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A H Abubakar , N Mansor , W I A Wan-Mohamad
Corporate tax avoidance, free cash flow and real earnings management: Evidence from Nigeria
Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 86 - 97 Posted: 2021
A Afrizal , W Eka Putra , Y Yuliusman , R Hernando , Afrizal , Putra , We , Yuliusman , Hernando
The effect of accounting conservatism, CSR disclosure and tax avoidance on earnings management: Some evidence from listed companies in INDONESIA , p. 1441 - 1456 Posted: 2020
L M A Aladwey
The effect of equity ownership structure on non-conditional conservatism: An empirical study based on listed companies in Egypt
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 742 - 771 Posted: 2021
A Alesina , S Michalopoulos , E Papaioannou
Ethnic Inequality
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 428 - 488 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
RANK
658,366
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies