Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choice of Participation Method in Setting International Accounting Standards: Evidence from EFRAG as an Intermediary for Indirect Participation

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 59 No. 1 (2024), 2450001. https://doi.org/10.1142/S109440602450001X

55 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024

Martin Gäumann

Dresden University of Technology

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

The research problem: Prior empirical research on constituents’ participation in setting international accounting standards has focused on their decision whether or not to participate directly in the standard setter’s due process. However, because that focus neglects constituents’ choice between direct participation and indirect participation via an intermediary, we investigated the determinants of using an indirect method of participation as a substitute for, or in complement to, direct participation.

Institutional setting: We exploited the European institutional setting, where the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) serves as an intermediary for indirect participation in the due process of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

The test hypotheses: Based on rational choice theory, we hypothesized that constituents from EFRAG’s inner circle and from countries with smaller capital markets, lower English-language proficiency, and/or an accounting value profile more different from that embodied in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have a higher probability of choosing to use indirect participation.

Adopted methodology: Using a sample of 7,766 comment letters (CLs) from 2005–2017, we focused on individual constituents and traced their use of indirect participation (i.e., sending CLs to EFRAG) versus direct participation (i.e., sending CLs to the IASB). We employed logistic regression models using the methods of participation as dependent variable to test our hypotheses. Controlling for factors used in prior research on direct participation, we estimated a primary model for the full sample of constituents and a secondary model with firm-specific variables for the subsample of constituents classified as corporate preparers.

Findings and implications: We found strong evidence that the constituents’ membership in EFRAG’s inner circle is positively related, and capital market size in the constituents’ home countries is negatively related, to choosing to use indirect participation. Country-level English-language proficiency and differences in the accounting value profile in relation to IFRS also determine the choice of participation method. Our findings suggest that a preference for indirect participation relates to the barriers to using direct participation. We provide initial evidence of a neglected aspect of Sutton’s (1984) rational choice model and implications for EFRAG’s role as an intermediary.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG), due process, standard setting, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

JEL Classification: M41, M48, F55

Suggested Citation:

Gäumann, Martin and Dobler, Michael, Choice of Participation Method in Setting International Accounting Standards: Evidence from EFRAG as an Intermediary for Indirect Participation ( 2023). The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 59 No. 1 (2024), 2450001. https://doi.org/10.1142/S109440602450001X, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4804052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
ED/2013/1 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets (Amendments to IAS 36) 75 12 40 12 66 ED/2013/2 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
Financial Instruments: Expected Credit Losses 190 23 100 23 68 ED/2013/4 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS , volume 41
29 6 73 ED/2013/9 IFRS for SMEs (Amendments to the International Financial Reporting Standard for Small and Medium-sized Entities
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
397
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies