Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Accounting Choice and Firm Performance: Evidence from China

51 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2024

Lizhu Ma

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Fangjun Wang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Shaojun Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: April 23, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we identify opportunistic capitalization of development costs by using the details about capitalized and expensed costs of individual R&D projects that Chinese listed firms are required to disclose in annual financial reports. Firms that engaged in opportunistic capitalization have significantly lower profitability than firms that reported normal capitalization. After excluding such opportunistic capitalization, we find that, compared with firms that expensed all R&D costs, the normal capitalization firms have a greater number of patent applications and patent grants, higher operating and SG&A costs, higher operating revenue, but lower accounting profitability. The cumulative abnormal stock return around the annual report release date is, on average, significantly higher for the capitalization firms than the expense-all firms, which suggests that outside equity investors view capitalization of development costs as a positive signal of firm value. However, the abnormal return is not significantly different between normal and opportunistic capitalization firms, meaning that outside equity investors cannot distinguish opportunistic capitalization from normal capitalization ex ante and thus fail to deter firms from engaging in opportunistic capitalization. This study provides new evidence on the accounting practice of Chinese listed firms and the relation between R&D accounting choice and firm performance.

Keywords: Earnings management, Firm performance, Opportunistic capitalization, Patent application, R&D accounting choice

JEL Classification: M41, D22

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Lizhu and Wang, Fangjun and Zhang, Shaojun, R&D Accounting Choice and Firm Performance: Evidence from China (April 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4804083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4804083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
970
RANK
552,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies