Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors and Firm Performance Evidence in the Oil and Gas Industry

29 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024

João Victor Machado

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rodrigo Lanna Franco da Silveira

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Camila Veneo Campos Fonseca

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fernando Sarti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the influence of institutional investor shareholding on firm performance in the O&G industry. The hypothesis is that, by monitoring companies and establishing corporate governance guidelines, the participation of institutional investors enhances the shareholder value perspective. A regression model was used, estimated with Generalized Method of Moments (GMM). The results indicated that past performance, dividend payments, carbon emissions, and institutional investment influence firm performance. These findings provide important elements for understanding the O&G industry dynamics, raising new questions about the growth of these companies amid the energy transition.

Keywords: Institutional investors, Ownership composition, Oil and Gas Industry, Firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Machado, João Victor and Silveira, Rodrigo Lanna Franco da and Fonseca, Camila Veneo Campos and Sarti, Fernando, Institutional Investors and Firm Performance Evidence in the Oil and Gas Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4804564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4804564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
S H Abedin , H Haque , T Shahjahan , M N Kabir
Institutional Ownership and Firm Performance: Evidence from an Emerging Economy
J. Risk Financ. Manag , volume 15 Posted: 2022
A Ajina , F Lakhal , D Sougné
Institutional investors, information asymmetry and stock market liquidity in France
Int. J. Manag. Financ , volume 11 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2015
A M A M Al-Sartawi , Z Sanad
Institutional ownership and corporate governance: evidence from Bahrain
Afro-Asian J. Financ. Account , volume 9 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2019
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG Controversies Matter for Firm Value? Evidence from International Data
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 151 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies