Accounting and accountability for managing diversity tensions in hybrid organisations, Giuseppe Grossi, Aziza Laguecir, Laurence Ferry, Basil P. Tucker"> Accounting and accountability for managing diversity tensions in hybrid organisations">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and accountability for managing diversity tensions in hybrid organisations

31 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024

Giuseppe Grossi

Kristianstad University

Aziza Laguecir

EDHEC Business School - Department of Accounting

Laurence Ferry

University of Durham

Basil P. Tucker

University of South Australia

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

Hybrid organisations are organisational forms that use different resources, governance models and institutional logics derived from public, private, for-profit and nonprofit. Hybridity can be referred to on multiple levels of analysis: macro-level related to the society, meso-level related to specific organisational fields or organisations, or micro-level related to groups or individual actors. This paper provides a comprehensive comment on the state of research on accounting and accountability themes in hybrid organisations. The paper also locates the articles included in this special section, identifying avenues for further research. The state of research in hybrid organisations shows that a growing number of studies focus on accounting and accountability practices in different types of hybrid organisations operating in different fields. This paper identifies diversity tensions in accounting and accountability for single hybrid organisations or networks operating at different levels, compromising multiple values and expectations of audiences/forums. The six articles in the special setion fill this gap in addressing questions of for who, for what, and where by exploring the multiple actors, values and forums involved in accounting and accountability practices in hybrid organisations.

Keywords: Accountability, Accounting, Hybridisation, Actors, Values

Suggested Citation:

Grossi, Giuseppe and Laguecir, Aziza and Ferry, Laurence and Tucker, Basil P., Accounting and accountability for managing diversity tensions in hybrid organisations (August 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4804019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4804019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
A Abdullah , I Khadaroo , C J Napier
Managing the performance of arts organisations: Pursuing heterogeneous objectives in an era of austerity
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , p. 174 - 184 Posted: 2018
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 32 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
T Ahrens , L Ferry , R Khalifa
The hybridising of financial and service expertise in English local authority budget control: a practice perspective
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management Posted: 2018
T Ahrens , L Ferry , R Khalifa
Governmentality and counter-conduct: a field study of accounting amidst concurrent and competing rationales and programmes
Management Accounting Research , volume 48 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
826,677
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies