Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minorities in the C-Suite: Trailblazing Corporate Intangible Capital?

58 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Wahib Ghazni

San Jose State University - Lucas College of Business; Drexel University

Date Written: April 24, 2024

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates the effects of ethnic diversity in the ranks of
C-suite leadership on the intangible capital stock of the firm. Due to a lack of data on organizational ethnic diversity, prior diversity studies have often been limited to showcasing only the effect of gender diversity on firm policy and outcomes. Using a novel database that identifies the ethnicity of C-suite executives, I explore the differentiating dimensions of leadership traits introduced to the managerial decision-making process by diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). The findings reveal that ethnic minority executives pioneer in building a firm’s intangible capital by increasing its innovation output and growing its organizational capital. This economic advantage is valued by investors and is not substituted by gender diversity in the ranks or by ethnic minority representation at the board level of the firm.

Keywords: Corporate Finance, CEO, Investments, Innovation, Human Capital, Intangible Capital, DEI, Ethnicity, Diversity

JEL Classification: D12, D25, G31, G34, M10

Suggested Citation:

Ghazni, Wahib, Minorities in the C-Suite: Trailblazing Corporate Intangible Capital? (April 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4806510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4806510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do Women Managers Keep Firms out of Trouble? Evidence from Corporate Litigation and Policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
469
RANK
724,439
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies