Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the value relevance of financial statements in European countries: the importance of legal origins on cross listing decisions.

12 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Alexios Kythreotis

European University Cyprus

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

In today’s globalized competitive landscape several dimensions such as labour, markets
and capital are integrated. As a result, companies attempt to gain inbound foreign capital. To achieve that they investigate away countries to host their operations and to trade their shares. While the concept of cross-listing strategy provides several benefits to companies, it has also critical challenges that companies are called to tackle. Different legal systems set different boundaries to investors power. With the application of criterion sampling, we utilize a multiple regression analysis in the European stock exchanges, for a period of eight years, and we investigated the impact of legal origins on financial statements’ value relevance. The findings indicate that common law countries offer a more beneficial environment for cross-listing strategies, as they demonstrate greater value relevance in financial statements compared to civil law countries. Specifically, our results show that both Profit or Loss and Balance Sheet items are more relevant in common law countries compared to civil law countries.

Suggested Citation:

Kythreotis, Alexios, Examining the value relevance of financial statements in European countries: the importance of legal origins on cross listing decisions. (April 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4807591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4807591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A S Ahmed
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
A Ali
country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2000
R Ball , P Brown
an empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
M Barak , R K
Does intellectual capital impact the financial performance of indian public sector banks? an empirical analysis using gMM
Humanities and Social Science Communication , volume 11 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies