Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thriving in Crisis: The Power of Managerial Ability During Covid-19

60 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2024

Ella Gorringe

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chen Zheng

Curtin University

Shams Pathan

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Abstract

Managerial ability, encompassing knowledge, skills, and experience, exerts significant influence over the critical outcomes of a company. This research explores the impact of managerial ability and COVID-19 exposure on company performance during the pandemic-triggered financial crisis. We find that highly capable managers enhance performance. Three key mechanisms are identified, particularly crucial for firms with financial constraints, information disparities, and managerial incentives. Rigorous testing for endogeneity, including instrumental variable, difference-in-differences, and event study analysis, supports our findings. In summary, heightened managerial ability emerges as a valuable intangible asset, safeguarding firms during crises.

Keywords: managerial ability, COVID-19, firm performance, financial constraints, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Gorringe, Ella and Zheng, Chen and Pathan, Shams, Thriving in Crisis: The Power of Managerial Ability During Covid-19. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4807350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4807350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Viral V Acharya , Sascha Steffen
The Risk of Being a Fallen Angel and the Corporate Dash for Cash in the Midst of Covid
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
Ron Adner , Constance E Helfat
Corporate Effects and Dynamic Managerial Capabilities
Strategic Management Journal , volume 24 , issue 10 , p. 1011 - 1025 Posted: 2003
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjo Koskinen , Shuai Yang , Chendi Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks: An Analysis of the Exogenous Covid-19 Market Crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
Armen A Alchian , Harold Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
RANK
864,457
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies