Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the ESG Performance of Cvc Parent Companies Have a Spillover Effect? An Analysis from the Perspective of Invested Companies

42 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Lei WANG

Jiangnan University

Dezhou Yuan

Jiangnan University

Zhiying Liu

Jiangnan University

Yunbi An

University of Windsor - Faculty of Business Administration

Abstract

This paper explores the effects of the environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) performance of corporate venture capital (CVC) parent companies on the ESG performance of their invested companies. By analyzing a sample of listed companies in the Chinese stock market, we find that the strong ESG performance of CVC parent companies enhances the ESG performance of the invested companies. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the ESG spillover effects from CVC parent companies are more pronounced in state-owned, non-manufacturing, and large-sized CVC parent companies compared to non-state-owned, manufacturing, and small-sized parent companies. Additionally, we show that both the inter-organizational learning effect of the invested companies and the CVC governance effect serve as mechanisms through which the ESG spillover effects from CVC parent companies manifest. Finally, we illustrate that the overall ESG spillover effects primarily stem from the environmental responsibility and corporate governance of CVC parent companies, rather than their social responsibilities. Our findings have important implications for enhancing the ESG performance of enterprises through socially responsible CVC investments, thereby facilitating the economic and industrial green transformation and development.

Keywords: Corporate venture capital, ESG, parent company, invested companies

Suggested Citation:

WANG, Lei and Yuan, Dezhou and Liu, Zhiying and An, Yunbi, Does the ESG Performance of Cvc Parent Companies Have a Spillover Effect? An Analysis from the Perspective of Invested Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4808041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4808041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
E Alakent , M S Goktan , T A Khoury
Is venture capital socially responsible? Exploring the imprinting effect of VC funding on CSR practices
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2020
M Alda
Corporate sustainability and institutional shareholders: The pressure of socially responsible pension funds on environmental firm practices
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 28 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2019
C Argyris , D Schon
Organizational learning: A theory of action approach Posted: 1978
E Battisti , N Miglietta , N Nirino , D M Villasalero
Value creation, innovation practice, and competitive advantage: Evidence from the FTSE MIB index
European Journal of Innovation Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 273 - 290 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
864,457
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies