Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR's impact on debt: Tunisian companies that are publicly traded (23 companies listed on the BVMT (2017-2023))

15 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2024

Achour Henda

University of Tunis

Malek El Weriemmi

University of Gabes

Date Written: April 27, 2024

Abstract

The advantages of corporate social responsibility for financial access are the subject of numerous research. Research indicates that corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives lower a company's risk profile and show that banks give credit to socially conscious businesses on advantageous conditions, which increases their debt levels. In this regard, we use panel data regression to examine the effect of the PES on the degree of indebtedness of a sample including 23 Tunisian companies registered on the Tunis Stock Exchange (BVMT) from 2017 to 2023. Our findings indicate a favourable but statistically negligible influence, which explains why the PSE has no effect on the amount of debt.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Social Performance, bank financing, debt levels, BVMT

JEL Classification: r/r

Suggested Citation:

Henda, Achour and Weriemmi, Malek El, CSR's impact on debt: Tunisian companies that are publicly traded (23 companies listed on the BVMT (2017-2023)) (April 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4809657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4809657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L Achy , S M Rigar
What determines financial structure in the Moroccan manufacturing sector? A firm level analysis
12th Annual Conference , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2005-12
A Acquier , J P Gond
Aux sources de la responsabilité sociale de l'entreprise: à la (re) découverte d'un ouvrage fondateur
Social Responsibilities of the Businessman d'Howard Bowen. Finance contrôle stratégie , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 35 Posted: 2007
A R Ajward , H Takehara
Superior corporate social performance and financial constraints: The case Japan
Global Economy and Finance Journal , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 42 - 58 Posted: 2014
J Allouche , I Huault , G Schmidt
Responsabilité sociale des entreprises: la mesure détournée
XVème Congrès de l'AGRH , p. 2390 - 2410 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies