Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Administrative Audit Regulation and the Quality of Accounting Information:  Evidence from China Securities Regulatory Commission's Random Inspection System

29 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2024

Hui Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wanting Zhuang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zijia Wang

Xiamen University

Anzhe Zhou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Based on the “double random” inspection system implemented by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on accounting firms, our study uses staggered DID method to examine the effect of administrative audit regulation on the quality of corporate accounting information. The results suggest: (1) The administrative audit regulation can effectively improve corporate accounting information quality; (2) The mechanism test reveals that the administrative audit regulation improves the quality of accounting information by improving internal control; (3) Further study reveals that the governance effect of the administrative audit regulation is more pronounced for firms with non-Big four auditing, high risk of misstatement and more agency costs. Our study investigates the governance effect of the CSRC’s random inspection system on the quality of corporate accounting information, providing theoretical and empirical evidence for the effectiveness of administrative audit supervision from the perspective of corporate accounting information system.

Keywords: Administrative audit regulation, random inspection, quality of accounting information, internal control

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Zhuang, Wanting and Wang, Zijia and Zhou, Anzhe, Administrative Audit Regulation and the Quality of Accounting Information:  Evidence from China Securities Regulatory Commission's Random Inspection System. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4810079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P Boone , I Khurana , K K Raman
Did the 2007 PCAOB disciplinary order against deloitte impose actual costs on the firm or improve its audit quality[J]
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 405 - 441 Posted: 2015
Y Cao , Y Zhao
Audit Regulation and Audit Quality[J]
Journal of Audit & Economics , issue 3 , p. 21 - 23 Posted: 2004
W Chen , Ch , W W Li , J F Li
Government Audit and Financialization of State-owned Firms
Auditing Research , issue 5 , p. 16 - 28
H W Chen , J Wang , Sh , S Y Liu , G D Yang
Audit committee transparency and accounting information quality -Empirical evidence based on performance disclosure[J]
Management Review , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 255 - 267 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Lori Qingyuan Yue , Jiexin Zheng , Kaixian Mao
Firms’ Rhetorical Nationalism: Theory, Measurement, and Evidence from a Computational Analysis of Chinese Public Firms
Yue, Lori Qingyuan, Jiexin Zheng, Kaixian Mao. 2024. Firms’ Rhetorical Nationalism: Theory, Measurement, and Evidence from a Computational Analysis of Chinese Public Firms. Management and Organization Review, 20(2) 161-203., · 63 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 651
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xu Xixiong , Siqi Wang , Cuiliang Lin , Zhenyuan Xu
Does Confucian Culture Promote Entrepreneurship? Evidence from China
IREF-D-24-00622 · 39 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2024 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
741,762
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies