Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Market Value: The Mediating Role of Investor Attention

17 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2024

Jiaqi Guo

Shanxi University

Changhong Li

Shanxi University

Wenting Jiao

Shanxi University

Abstract

This paper investigates how the market value of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure within the framework of family-owned enterprise. It also explores the mediator of investor attention between CSR disclosures and market value, alongside the moderator of marketization on the relationship between CSR disclosures and investor attention. Our empirical results demonstrate CSR positively impacts family firms' market value, in contrast to CSR negatively impacts non-family firms’ market value. Furthermore, investor attention is found to mediate the relationship between CSR disclosures and market value. The degree of marketization is shown to moderate the aforementioned relationship between CSR disclosures and investor attention.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, market value, Investor Attention, Marketization

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Jiaqi and Li, Changhong and Jiao, Wenting, Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Market Value: The Mediating Role of Investor Attention. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4810014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The Moderator-Mediator Variable Distinction in Social Psychological Research: Conceptual, Strategic, and Statistical Considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
J Bebbington , C Larrinaga , J M Moneva
Corporate social reporting and reputation risk management
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 337 - 361 Posted: 2008
P Berrone , C Cruz , L R Gomezmejia , M Larrazakintana
Socioemotional Wealth and Corporate Responses to Institutional Pressures: Do Family-Controlled Firms Pollute Less?
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 113 Posted: 2010
A Bitektine
Toward a Theory of Social Judgments of Organizations: The Case of Legitimacy, Reputation, and Status , volume 36 , p. 151 - 179 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
381
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies