Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of United States Boards of Accountancy in Monitoring and Sanctioning CPA Misbehavior

46 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024 Last revised: 30 Oct 2024

Lindsay M. Andiola

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Bowe Hansen

Virginia Commonwealth University

Karry Kwon

affiliation not provided to SSRN

J. Matthew Sarji

Georgia Southern University

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

We investigate variation in the attributes of United States (U.S.) Boards of Accountancy across thirty-three states from 2015-2018, and how this variation relates to their monitoring and sanctioning activities. We find that state boards vary substantially along several dimensions including the independence and expertise of board members, the gender and racial diversity of the board, the frequency of board meetings, the board’s licensing and continuing professional education (CPE) requirements, and the board’s budget. In addition, we find that these variations are significantly related to the types of disciplinary cases state boards report and the sanctions they impose. Our results provide insights into factors that affect the ability of the accounting profession to effectively self-regulate and that increase the risk of inconsistent monitoring of Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) across states.

Keywords: State boards of accountancy; Professional licensure; Self-regulation; Misconduct; Disciplinary cases; Sanctions, Professional licensure, Self-regulation, Misconduct, Disciplinary cases, Sanctions

JEL Classification: D71, D73, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Andiola, Lindsay M. and Hansen, Thomas Bowe and Kwon, Kyungeun (Karry) and Sarji, J. Matthew, The Role of United States Boards of Accountancy in Monitoring and Sanctioning CPA Misbehavior (October 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4810875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Audit. J. Pract. Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
A Al-Moshaigeh , D Dickens , J L Higgs
The influence of political regime on statelevel disciplinary actions of CPAs sanctioned by the PCAOB
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 176 , p. 325 - 340 Posted: 2022
A Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
Account. Rev , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
J Bédard
The disciplinary process of the accounting profession: Protecting the public or the profession? The Quebec experience
J. Account. Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 399 - 437 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
RANK
798,750
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies