Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vendor’s Capability: a Way for Winning the Contract in a B2B Relationship

Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research | 13 (1) 2024, 13-23

11 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Sumit Saha

Dayananda Sagar Business School

Kunal Joshi

University of Mysore

Date Written: January 1, 2024

Abstract

A Business-to-Business commercial (B2B) transaction is different from normal retail transactions with customers. Organisations engage with each other and vendors in a specific manner in a B2B purchase environment. Organisations, big or small, spend money to keep up with their business operations. This requires them to deal with many other business units called vendors/suppliers to help them with necessary input resources for their business operations. In B2B transactions, organisations deal with each other to purchase goods and services. These associations work on long-term business relationships. The vendor organisations hire sales teams and relationship managers to work with the client organisation in order to maintain healthy business relationships. It is a point of debate whether the relationship that exists between the vendor and the client is because of the personnel who is responsible for the relationship or is it the vendor organisation as a whole that has built its capability and experience over the years has been successful in maintaining business relationships with the client. A client who engages with a vendor will have certain criteria for selection and engagement with a vendor. With this view, we have decided to study this phenomenon by comparing the two factors – sales person’s relationship and vendor’s capability and check which of the two factors influences the awarding of contracts from the clients. Purchase is more process driven it evaluates the vendors strongly on their capability to deliver on the purchase terms. The data analysis and the hypothesis testing results obtained indicate that evaluating vendors by their capabilities for awarding contracts is a more pragmatic way of supplier selection.

Keywords: Vendor Management, B2B Sales, Relationship Management, Corporate Purchase Decisions

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Sumit and Joshi, Kunal, Vendor’s Capability: a Way for Winning the Contract in a B2B Relationship (January 1, 2024). Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research | 13 (1) 2024, 13-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Valtakoski
Initiation of buyer-seller relationships: The impact of intangibility, trust and mitigation strategies
Industrial Marketing Management , volume 44 , p. 107 - 118 Posted: 2015
Y Saito , A Monden , K Matsumoto
Evaluation of nonfunctional requirements in a request for proposal (RFP)
2012 Joint Conference of the 22nd International Workshop on Software Measurement and the 2012 Seventh International Conference on Software Process and Product Measurement , p. 106 - 111 Posted: 2012-10
Vendor's Capability: A Way for Winning the Contract in a B2B Relationship 23
J Hendieh
Budgeting and financial techniques used by SMEs during crisis
Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
RANK
649,230
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies