Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overconfidence, Moral Hazard, and Earnings Management *

42 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Nikolaj Niebuhr Lambertsen

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business Economics

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

I study the relationship between overconfidence and earnings management in a principal-agent model with moral hazard. If the contract aims to exploit the agent's overconfidence, overconfidence leads to earnings management. If the contract aims to provide incentives, it is always possible to implement the same action with less earnings management with an overconfident agent relative to an objective agent. A positive relationship between overconfidence and earnings management only appears if the principal takes advantage of the agent's biased beliefs. A novel effect of earnings management is that it can protect the agent against exploitation. The model provides empirical predictions on the relationship between earnings management and overconfidence and a new way to interpret the positive association between overconfidence and earnings management observed empirically.

Keywords: overconfidence, earnings management, moral hazard, heterogeneous beliefs, financial reporting JEL Classification: D86, G40, M41

JEL Classification: D86, G40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lambertsen, Nikolaj Niebuhr, Overconfidence, Moral Hazard, and Earnings Management * (April 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4810722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
D Barron , G Georgiadis , J Swinkels
Optimal contracts with a risk-taking agent
Theoretical Economics , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 715 - 761 Posted: 2020
A Beyer , I Guttman , I Marinovic
Optimal contracts with performance manipulation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 817 - 847 Posted: 2014
C H Bouwman
Managerial optimism and earnings smoothing
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 41 , p. 283 - 303 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
609,870
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies