Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Environment and Ecological Environment Perspectives Capital Market Openness and Firm ESG Rating Divergence

32 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2024

Zhennan Sun

Zhejiang University of Technology

Qunyang Du

Zhejiang University of Technology

Min Du

Edinburgh Napier University

Zhongyuan Li

Wenzhou University

Tianle Yang

Zhejiang University of Technology

Abstract

Amid increasing demands for green economic growth, firms must adapt their business models and development strategies. However, most of the studies on this topic focus on examining the economic consequences of differences in firms’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings and ignore the external influences that lead to differences in information environments. This paper explores the impact of capital market openness on firm ESG rating divergence and conducts a related mechanism analysis. It is found that capital market openness creates an information environment concern effect that is generated by analysts’ concerns, audit quality, and investors’ concerns, which in turn exacerbates firm ESG rating divergence. A moderating effect test shows that the pressure created by government and public concerns regarding the ecological environment generates an ecological environment concern effect on firm ESG performance and effectively decreases the firm ESG rating divergence caused by the information concern effect.

Keywords: Firm ESG rating divergence, Capital market openness, Information environment, Ecological environment

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Zhennan and Du, Qunyang and Du, Min and Li, Zhongyuan and Yang, Tianle, The Information Environment and Ecological Environment Perspectives Capital Market Openness and Firm ESG Rating Divergence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4810078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4810078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S Andrade , J Bian , T Burch
Analyst coverage, information, and bubbles
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 485 , p. 1573 - 1605 Posted: 2013
Z Anwer , J W Goodell , M Migliavacca , A Paltrinieri
Does ESG impact systemic risk? Evidencing an inverted U-shape relationship for major energy firms
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 216 , p. 10 - 25 Posted: 2023
R Atan , M M Alam , J Said , M Zamri
The impacts of environmental, social, and governance factors on firm performance
Management of Environmental Quality: An International Journal , volume 292 , p. 182 - 194 Posted: 2018
Y A Bai
Corporate social responsibility and corporate innovation output: Empirical evidence based on Chinese listed companies
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 438 , p. 3534 - 3547 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies