Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Country-by-Country Reporting, Tax Avoidance and the Cost of Equity Capital Pan-European Evidence

66 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2024

Ahmed Aboud

University of Portsmouth UK

Yasser Eliwa

Loughborough University - Loughborough Business School

Ahmed Saleh

Brunel University London

Jia Liu

University of Portsmouth

Abstract

This paper investigates the role played by tax avoidance in MNC’s managements’ decisions to disclose country-by-country (CbC) information voluntarily in annual reports and analysing investors’ perceptions of these decisions. Based on a large sample of European multinational corporations (MNCs) between 2007-2018, our study demonstrates that MNCs engaging in high tax avoidance tend to disclose less CbC information in their annual reports. Further, investors reward MNCs for their increased transparency and tax responsible behaviour by reducing the cost of equity capital. In addition, our analysis shows that the effect of CbC reporting on the cost of equity is stronger for firms with lower tax avoidance. Moreover, our further analysis reveals that MNCs with high tax avoidance, operating in countries where financial secrecy is high, tend to exhibit lower levels of CbC reporting. Our study contributes to the international business literature and growing debate on tax avoidance, offering policy insights to regulators, policymakers and accounting standard-setting bodies, supporting initiatives to impose mandatory public CbC reporting on non-financial MNCs.

Keywords: Country-by-country reporting, tax avoidance, the cost of equity capital, MNCs, cross-country study

Suggested Citation:

Aboud, Ahmed and Eliwa, Yasser and Saleh, Ahmed and Liu, Jia, Public Country-by-Country Reporting, Tax Avoidance and the Cost of Equity Capital Pan-European Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
A Aboud , C Roberts , A M Zalata
The impact of IFRS 8 on financial analysts' earnings forecast errors: EU evidence
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 33 , p. 2 - 17 Posted: 2018
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
H Akamah , O.-K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
S Akhtar , F Akhtar , K John , S.-W Wong
Multinationals' tax evasion: A financial and governance perspective
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 57 , p. 35 - 62 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
RANK
662,989
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies