Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Isomorphism and CSR Reporting of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises

46 Pages Posted: 21 May 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Fredrik Hartwig

University of Gävle

Wensong Bai

Zhejiang University of Technology

Niklas Rudholm

HFI, Institute of Retail Economics

Date Written: May 15, 2023

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the direct and indirect effects of the EU-wide mandatory CSR reporting reform (2014/95/EU). We argue and find that, in addition to direct effects, coercive pressure also has spillover effects. An example of such a spillover effect of coercive pressure due to the reform is the change in reporting behavior of firms not subject to the reform, i.e., not directly coerced by the regulation. We exploit the Swedish implementation of the reform as a natural experiment to test our hypotheses and find that firms coerced by the reform increase their CSR reporting by 3.5 issues on average. However, firms not coerced by the regulation but close to being regulated increase their CSR reporting by 5.2 issues. As such, firms close to being regulated change their behavior more at the time of the reform than do those that are actually regulated. We also find that the spillover effects are significantly higher for low than high prereform reporters. On the other hand, the direct effects on low prereform reporters are insignificant. Together, the results refine our understanding of the institutionalization process of CSR reporting in a mandatory setting. The results are robust for various model specifications and provide useful insights for regulators and managers.

Keywords: SMEs, CSR, NFRD, Isomorphism, Natural experiment, Manufacturing industry

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Hartwig, Fredrik and Bai, Wensong and Rudholm, Niklas, Institutional Isomorphism and CSR Reporting of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (May 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mastering 'metrics: The path from cause to effect Posted: 2015
S Aureli , M Del Baldo , R Lombardi , F Nappo
Nonfinancial reporting regulation and challenges in sustainability disclosure and corporate governance practices
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 29 , issue 6 , p. 2392 - 2403 Posted: 2020
I Ayres
Three tests for measuring unjustified disparate impacts in organ transplantation: The problem of "included variable" bias
Perspectives in Biology and Medicine , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 68 - S87 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
RANK
833,930
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies