Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-blockholder Dissatisfaction and Firm Performance Volatility: A Groupthink Perspective

Posted: 1 May 2024

Jeong Bon Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Johan Maharjan

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Yijiang Zhao

American University - Kogod School of Business

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

Social psychology research suggests that management groups facing greater external threats are more prone to groupthink (i.e., a tendency to reach premature consensus), leading to increased performance volatility. To disentangle the group dynamics channel from the governance channel, we focus on the threat to management from the dissatisfaction of largely uninformed non-blockholders. Consistent with the groupthink view, we find that (1) non-blockholder dissatisfaction is positively associated with performance volatility and the volatility of decisions that impact performance, and (2) the baseline relation is stronger when the CEO has more power and the board has less diversity. Corroborated by tests addressing omitted variable bias and reverse causality, our results suggest that non-blockholder dissatisfaction heightens performance volatility by exacerbating premature consensus-seeking.

Keywords: Non-blockholder dissatisfaction; Lack of private information; Groupthink; External threat; Performance volatility

JEL Classification: G30; G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong Bon and Maharjan, Johan and Zhao, Yijiang, Non-blockholder Dissatisfaction and Firm Performance Volatility: A Groupthink Perspective (April 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811338
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
224
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies