Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Provided Nonpublic Signals of Misreporting and CFO Dismissal

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024 Last revised: 16 Sep 2025

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Summer Liu

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

Research suggests that board members value financial reporting quality because executive dismissal often follows low reporting quality events. However, inferences about the board’s demand for reporting quality in these studies are confounded by board members’ reputation incentives because the events examined are public (e.g., restatements). We investigate boards’ demand for reporting quality by exploiting a private signal of misreporting: audit adjustments communicated to the board by the external auditor. We first survey 29 audit committee chairs to understand whether boards use audit adjustments in their oversight of management and then conduct an empirical investigation to answer our research question. We find an increased likelihood of CFO dismissal following audit adjustments. This association is driven by adjustments that reduce income and by firms with better board oversight. These findings suggest that boards proactively use nonpublic signals of reporting quality and incorporate information from auditors into their monitoring function.

Keywords: Private signals; audit adjustments; reporting quality; executive turnover; CFO dismissal

JEL Classification: G34; L84; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Liu, Summer and Newton, Nathan J. and Zhang, Min, Auditor-Provided Nonpublic Signals of Misreporting and CFO Dismissal (April 29, 2024). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Corporate governance consequences of accounting scandals: Evidence from top management, CFO, and auditor turnover
Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2017
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Academy of Management Journal , volume 49 , issue 6 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
M J Beck , E G Mauldin
Who's really in charge? Audit committee versus CFO power and audit fees
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 6 , p. 2057 - 2085 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
814
RANK
386,825
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies