Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Accountable Information in CSR Reports: A New Operationalization and Analysis Applied to Greenhouse Gas Disclosures

Asif M. Huq, Kenneth Carling; Measuring Accountable Information in CSR Reports: A New Operationalization and Analysis Applied to Greenhouse Gas Disclosures. Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting 1 March 2024; 21 (1): 59–88. https://doi.org/10.2308/JETA-2022-002

Posted: 21 May 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Kenneth Carling

Dalarna University

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

We develop a novel and generic text-based measure to classify and evaluate greenhouse gas (GHG) disclosures. We construct the measure using collocation analysis of GHG-related words and regular expressions. Automated implementation achieved high concordance compared to manual investigations. We move beyond the “bag-of-words” approach in classifying voluminous nonfinancial corporate disclosure. We also outline a methodology that is manyfold scalable and makes replicability straightforward. Compared to past studies, we work with a significantly larger sample of 5,017 reports across 80 countries, thereby dealing with greater complexity and leading to better generalizability. We also contribute to the debate on whether nonfinancial disclosures exhibit accountability or are merely greenwashing. We find a negative trend in accountability worldwide, and firm-level accountability in GHG disclosures is not detectable in a country-level reduction of GHG emissions. Moreover, firms disclose significantly higher accountable information in a civil-law legal environment compared to those in a common-law legal environment.

Keywords: greenhouse gas, accountability, text mining, CSR, institutional environment

JEL Classification: M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Carling, Kenneth, Measuring Accountable Information in CSR Reports: A New Operationalization and Analysis Applied to Greenhouse Gas Disclosures (January 8, 2024). Asif M. Huq, Kenneth Carling; Measuring Accountable Information in CSR Reports: A New Operationalization and Analysis Applied to Greenhouse Gas Disclosures. Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting 1 March 2024; 21 (1): 59–88. https://doi.org/10.2308/JETA-2022-002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812795
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies