Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Certification Effect of Government Tender Procurements: Evidence from the Cost of Debt

32 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Chunqiang Zhang

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Wanqiang Ye

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Linlang Zhang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Fan Xia

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

Using government tender procurement (GTP) data of Chinese A‒share listed firms, we examine whether and how firms benefit from GTPs in the context of the cost of debt. We find that firms with GTPs have a lower cost of debt than firms without GTPs. We argue that GTPs convey positive signals and reduce perceived risks to creditors. Additional analysis shows that GTPs reduce the cost of debt more for firms with first‒time and non‒local GTPs, as those orders undergo extensive government screening. We further find that the cost‒reducing benefits are more pronounced for firms with non‒Big 4 auditors, non‒political connections, and small size, indicating that these firms that have a greater need to obtain the lower cost of debt gain more from GTPs. Overall, we document the spillover effects of GTPs in the debt market and provide insights into new government‒business relationships.

Keywords: government tender procurement, Signaling effect, information effect, cost of debt

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Chunqiang and Ye, Wanqiang and Zhang, Linlang and Chan, Johnny and Xia, Fan, The Certification Effect of Government Tender Procurements: Evidence from the Cost of Debt. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
T Arifin , I Hasan , R Kabir
Transactional and relational approaches to political connections and the cost of debt
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 65 Posted: 2020
S Bhattacharya , G Chiesa
Proprietary information, financial intermediation, and research incentives
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 357 Posted: 1995
K H Chan , E J Jiang , P L L Mo
The effects of using bank auditors on audit quality and the agency cost of bank loans
Accounting Horizons , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 133 - 153 Posted: 2017
C Charumilind , R Kali , Y Wiwattanakantang
Connected lending: Thailand before the financial crisis
Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 181 - 218 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies