Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Audit Oversight and Foreign Investment

54 Pages Posted: 1 May 2024 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Beverly J. Larson

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Date Written: October 14, 2025

Abstract

Public audit oversight bodies have become ubiquitous following the establishment of the U.S. PCAOB in 2002. However, despite their cost and prominence, little is known of their economic implications, if any. We examine the relation between establishment of public audit oversight bodies (POBs) and cross-border investment. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that after a country establishes a POB, the country attracts more foreign capital. Our results suggest that total foreign portfolio investment (FPI) increases by approximately $250 million for the average investor country. The impact of POBs on foreign investment is dependent on the effectiveness of the POB in improving audit quality and the strength of a country’s existing institutional environment. Our study provides evidence of real economic effects of public audit oversight around the world which adds to the literature on auditor oversight and to the broader literature on economic consequences of regulation. 

Keywords: Public audit oversight, foreign investment, audit regulation, international auditing, international capital markets

JEL Classification: M42, M48, F21, L51, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Larson, Beverly J., National Audit Oversight and Foreign Investment (October 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
R Aggarwal , C Kearney , B Lucey
Gravity and culture in foreign portfolio investment
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 525 - 538 Posted: 2012
M F Ahmad , N Aktas , D Cumming , G Xu
Board reforms and M&A performance: International evidence
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 55 , p. 616 - 637 Posted: 2024
L Alfaro , S Kalemi-Ozcan , V Volosovych
Why doesn't capital flow from rich to poor countries? An empirical investigation
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 368 Posted: 2008
D Amiram , M M Frank
Foreign portfolio investment and shareholder dividend taxes
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 717 - 740 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
RANK
336,212
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies