Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Accountant in the C-Suite: Chief Accounting Officers and Asymmetric Timely Loss Recognition

Publication at Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Robert Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Bryan Byung-Hee Lee

Korea University, Sejong

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: April 24, 2024

Abstract

We study the role and influence of Chief Accounting Officers (CAOs) by examining the relation between the presence of a CAO on the top management team and asymmetric timely loss recognition (ATLR). Using large-sample data from 10-Ks and proxy statements of S&P 1500 firms, we find that the presence of a CAO is positively associated with the level of ATLR and that this positive relation is more pronounced when the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) does not have an accounting background. Our difference-in-differences analysis further indicates that the level of ATLR increases significantly following the initial appointments of CAOs. The results are robust to propensity score matching, alternative ATLR models, and various control variables. Collectively, our findings suggest that adding an accounting chief to the C-suite has a significant impact on financial reporting practices.

Keywords: Chief accounting officer, Chief financial officer, Asymmetric timely loss recognition, Accounting conservatism, Accounting background

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Robert and Lee, Bryan Byung-Hee and Lee, Jay Junghun, An Accountant in the C-Suite: Chief Accounting Officers and Asymmetric Timely Loss Recognition (April 24, 2024). Publication at Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: an empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Unamortized Discount and Redemption Premium on Bonds Refunded
Committee on Accounting Procedures (AICPA) Posted: 1939
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies