Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Big 4 Effect on Earnings Quality Via Audit Adjustments

30 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Slavko Sodan

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

Tina Vuko

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Zeljana Aljinovic Barac

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the differences in audited financial reporting quality between Big 4 and non-Big 4 clients are mainly driven by client’s pre-audit financial reporting quality or by audit treatment via audit adjustments. Since detailed pre-audit data are usually not available to the researchers, prior literature could only control the audit effect for different client characteristics, such as size, leverage, profitability, etc., between two groups of auditors. By using detailed pre-audit/audited financial statement data of Croatian listed companies, we are able to estimate the impact of Big 4 audit adjustments on audited earnings quality while controlling for the differences in the clients’ pre-audit earnings quality. We find that Big 4 clients have significantly higher pre-audit and audited accrual quality. However, when we control for the pre-audit accrual quality, our results indicate that the effect of Big 4 adjustments on audited accrual quality is not significantly different from the non-Big 4 adjustments.

Keywords: pre-audit financial statements, audit adjustments, earnings quality, audit quality, Big 4 auditors

Suggested Citation:

Sodan, Slavko and Vuko, Tina and Aljinovic Barac, Zeljana, Understanding the Big 4 Effect on Earnings Quality Via Audit Adjustments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia
References: Audit Act , issue 127 Posted: 2017
R Ball , V V Nikolaev
On earnings and cash flows as predictors of future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 73 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
J P Boone , I K Khurana , K K Raman
Do the Big 4 and the second-tier firms provide audits of similar quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2010
M Butler , A J Leone , M Willenborg
An empirical analysis of auditor reporting and its association with abnormal accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 165 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
284,107
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies