Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Exchange ESG Initiatives and Corporate Sustainability

Posted: 16 Dec 2024

Michelle Chang

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

Sie Ting Lau

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Banking & Finance

Date Written: May 5, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of environment, social and governance (ESG) initiatives of stock exchanges (SEs) on exchange members’ sustainability performance between 2010 and 2021 and find that the role of SEs comes mainly from their ESG reporting guidelines (‘ESG Guidance’) after 2015. Using sample of global companies across 53 countries and 55 exchanges, we find that ESG Guidance referencing international reporting instruments (the content of the guidelines) and its issuance (the timeliness of the guidelines) are more relevant to exchange members’ sustainability performance (proxied by companies’ ESG ratings) than the presence of quantitative reporting metrics in the guidelines (the quality of the guidelines). This is particularly true in countries that do not have mandatory reporting requirements as there is otherwise, a substitution effect between ESG Guidance and these requirements. Despite this, there is a lack of association between guiding and non-guiding SE ESG initiatives and corporate sustainability performance when we use level of carbon emissions of companies as a proxy for companies’ ESG performance across time periods. The result is in line with studies on the limited role of ESG ratings as a measure of corporate sustainability performance. Overall, this paper provides suggestions on the construct of ESG Guidance as well as role which SEs can play in global sustainability efforts.

Keywords: Stock Exchange Sustainability, Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) Guidance, ESG Reporting Standards, Mandatory Reporting

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Michelle and Lau, Sie Ting, Stock Exchange ESG Initiatives and Corporate Sustainability (May 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4814121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4814121
 Not Available for Download
48 References
M Ali Fekrat , C Inclan , D Petroni
Corporate environmental disclosures: Competitive disclosure hypothesis using 1991 annual report data
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 195 Posted: 1996
G Aras , D Crowther
Corporate Sustainability Reporting: A Study in Disingenuity
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 279 - 288 Posted: 2009
T Bauckloh , C Klein , T Pioch , F Schiemann
Under Pressure? The Link Between Mandatory Climate Reporting and Firms' Carbon Performance
Organization & Environment Posted: 2022
F Berg , K Fabisik , Z Sautner
Rewriting History II: The (Un)Predictable Past of ESG Ratings
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
868
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies