Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
BATTLEFIELD TO BOARDROOM: THE INFLUENCE OF CEO MILITARY EXPERIENCE ON CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND FIRM PERFORMANCE

Posted: 2 May 2024 Last revised: 6 Apr 2025

Wen Hua Sharpe

University of the Sunshine Coast

Tianmin Cheng

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Helen Song-Turner

Federation University Australia

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of CEOs' military experience on customer satisfaction and firm performance. Using data from the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) for publicly listed US companies from 2002 to 2018, our empirical results show that firms led by CEOs with military experience are related to higher customer satisfaction. Furthermore, CEO military experience interacts with customer satisfaction to jointly influence firm performance. To deepen our understanding, we explore the mediating role of employee welfare and CSR decoupling activities and find that the positive CEO military experience-customer satisfaction association is mediated by firms that implement more employee-friendly policies and engage in less greenwashing activities. Our findings suggest that shareholders and customers view a CEO's military experience as a reflection of company policy and therefore an important determinant of customer satisfaction and corporate performance. In addition to guiding future research in this area, we also provide valuable implications for key stakeholders, including managers, investors, and policymakers.

Keywords: Military experience, customer satisfaction, firm performance, employees, greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Sharpe, Wen Hua and Cheng, Tianmin and Song-Turner, Helen, BATTLEFIELD TO BOARDROOM: THE INFLUENCE OF CEO MILITARY EXPERIENCE ON CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND FIRM PERFORMANCE (April 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4815605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4815605
 Not Available for Download
79 References
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
E W Anderson , S Fornell , S K Mazvancheryl
Customer satisfaction and shareholder value
Journal of Marketing , volume 68 , p. 172 - 185 Posted: 2004
Y Avrahami , M Lerner
The effect of combat service and military rank on entrepreneurial careers: The case of Israeli MBA graduates
Journal of Political & Military Sociology , volume 31 , p. 97 - 118 Posted: 2003
M L Barnett
Stakeholder influence capacity and the variability of financial returns to corporate social responsibility , volume 32 , p. 794 - 816 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies