Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Has a Corporation’s Director Resigned? It’s More Complicated Than You Might Think!

Canadian Business Law Journal, Vol. 67, p. 115 (2023)

50 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024

Brian Studniberg

Henein Hutchison Robitaille LLP

Date Written: July 2023

Abstract

Determining when a corporation’s director has resigned can be important for a number of legal determinations, some of them arising under provincial law and some under federal law, but perhaps most often the issue arises for federal tax purposes in Canada. While Canada’s corporation statutes direct that a director’s resignation should be in writing, they do not require that the resignation be provided in a way that makes its communication to the corporation an externally verifiable act. In some of its recent tax cases, the Federal Court of Appeal has committed to just such an approach, following the encouragement of Canada’s federal tax authority. In so doing, the Federal Court of Appeal has arguably departed from what the relevant body of authorities on the provincial corporate law outline as the parameters for a legally valid resignation. While the
underlying considerations which have motivated Canada’s federal tax authorities and courts reflect sensible policy concerns about the value of an objective measure of a director’s resignation, such an orientation represents a break from the prior state in which Canada’s federal courts looked to the appropriate source of provincial law to set the legal parameters to which Canada’s federal tax law is then applied. Legal coherence in Canada’s federal state would be better supported by a clear return to the situation in which provincial corporate law fully complements the federal tax statutes or, if regarded as necessary for policy reasons, a clear amendment to the federal legislation expressly removes such reference.

Note: “Reproduced from [Brian Studniberg:] ‘[WHEN HAS A CORPORATION’S DIRECTOR RESIGNED? IT’S MORE COMPLICATED THAN YOU MIGHT THINK!]’ (2023) [65] Canadian Business Law Journal [115], by permission of Canadian Business Law Journal Inc. and Thomson Reuters Canada Limted.

Suggested Citation:

Studniberg, Brian, When Has a Corporation’s Director Resigned? It’s More Complicated Than You Might Think! (July 2023). Canadian Business Law Journal, Vol. 67, p. 115 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4816677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Chriss V R
FCA 236 (F.C.A.) at paras. 13-15, leave to appeal refused R Posted: 2016
Chriss V R
FCA 236 (F.C.A.) at para. 19, leave to appeal refused R Posted: 2016
Chriss V R , F C A , R V Gariepy
CarswellNat 1823 (S.C.C.). It is worth noting that, in the context of a director's due diligence defence, the respective tax statutes, the Income Tax Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. 1 (5 th Supp.), s. 227.1(3) and the Excise Tax Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. E-15, s. 323(3) set out the additional criteria in requiring the director to have "exercised the degree of care, diligence and skill to prevent the failure that a reasonably prudent person would have exercised in comparable circumstances
FCA , volume 236 Posted: 2016
FCA 16 (F.C.A.) at para. 11, leave to appeal refused Robin Cliff v. His Majesty the King
Canada Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
320
RANK
791,953
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies