Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing and Financial Reporting Relevance to Corporate Governance: A Case Study of Selected Public Institutions in Ghana

69 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2024

Emmanuel Owusu Ansah

University of Siena

Date Written: october 22, 2022

Abstract

[Globally, there has been a surge in studies focussing on the relevance of auditing and financial reporting to corporate governance. Most of these studies have found a positive connection between auding, financial reporting and corporate governance. This current study digresses from previous studies by focussing on three important objectives in respect of corporate governance: To determine the level of independence by auditors in public institutions, to assess the capacity of auditors in carrying out their duties in public institutions and to find out the extent to which recommendations by the auditors are used towards improving operations in public institutions. The study employed the qualitative approach and made use of semi structured questions. Purposive sampling was also used to select two institutions (National Insurance Commission and Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority) for the study. In much the same way, purposive sampling was also employed to select 10 senior officers from the two public institutions for the study. Two (2) finance lecturers from the University of Ghana Business School were also recruited purposively to corroborate the data obtained from the technocrats. Using thematic analysis to analyse the data, the respondents scored high marks when benchmarked against all the cardinal indicators that enhances the independence of the internal auditor. This is indicative of the fact that the auditors within the assessed public institutions have the requisite conditions that guarantees their independence. In terms of the capacity of the auditors to carry out their duties, the study found that the auditors had suitable educational qualifications and experience but had minimal funding for their operations. In sum,10 they had moderate capacity to carry out their obligations. In terms of implementation of auditor’s recommendations, it was found that it depends on the type of institution and the leadership style of the institutional heads. The study therefore recommends that Government should put in place a mechanism aimed at ensuring that recommendations by internal auditors are examined and implemented. Again, government should find alternative ways of providing reliable funding and resources to the various audit units. There is also the need to invest heavily in the training of internal auditors. Lastly, the study recommends that senior managers within the various government institutions should undergo various trainings on the relevance of internal auditors in government operations. This will ensure sufficient support of senior management for the activities of internal auditors.]

Keywords: Auditing,Financial reporting, Corporate Governance, Public Institution, Purposive Sampling, University of Ghana Business School, Thermatic Analysis

JEL Classification: H83,H80,G38

Suggested Citation:

Owusu Ansah, Emmanuel, Auditing and Financial Reporting Relevance to Corporate Governance: A Case Study of Selected Public Institutions in Ghana (october 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4820449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4820449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
F Aboagye-Otchere
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Financial Disclosure and Corporate Governance Disclosure in Ghana Posted: 2014
B K Agyei-Mensah
Impact of corporate governance attributes and financial reporting lag on corporate financial performance
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies Posted: 2018
O S Agyemang , M Castellini
Corporate governance in an emergent economy: a case of Ghana Posted: 2015
auditing#:text=ISO%2019011%3A2018%20defines%20an%20audit%2s%20 a%20%22systematic%2C,An%20audit%20conducted%20on%20a%20management%2 0system.%20 Posted: 2020-12-14
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
635
RANK
549,043
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies