Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives the Efficiency of Corporate Social Responsibility Activities? Evidence from Targeted Poverty Alleviation Projects

Posted: 14 May 2024

Xiaobei Huang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Jianing Lv

Independent

Yunling Song

Zhejiang University

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: May 9, 2024

Abstract

Chinese firms are required to disclose their expenditures on targeted poverty alleviation (TPA) projects and the number of people being lifted out of poverty as a result. This unique setting provides both the input and output of a specific corporate social responsibility (CSR) activity, allowing us to examine its efficiency. We find that while firms under greater political pressure spend more on TPA, they are less efficient in lifting people out of poverty. The results hold after controlling for the difficulty of the TPA projects. In addition, firms required to issue CSR reports and firms more efficient in their businesses manage their TPA projects more efficiently. Our paper provides the first evidence on the efficiency of a CSR activity using firm-level data, and has significant policy implications.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, corporate social performance, CSR efficiency, poverty alleviation, CSR disclosure

JEL Classification: I32, I38, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xiaobei and Lv, Jianing and Song, Yunling and Zhou, Ling, What Drives the Efficiency of Corporate Social Responsibility Activities? Evidence from Targeted Poverty Alleviation Projects (May 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4821977
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies