Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Family Relationship of the CEO-Chairman Matter in Corporate Performance? Evidence from an Emerging Economy

International Journal of Research Publication and Reviews, Vol 5, no 5, pp 3124-3135 May 2024

Posted: 10 Jun 2024

Rana Mazumder

United International University

Ashok Chakraborty

Independent

Jahedul Bhuiyan

Independent

Bebe Asma

University of Toledo

Date Written: May 2024

Abstract

There is minimal study on how the familial connection between the CEO and Chairman of the Board impacts the performance of a company, although we find a wealth of research on the correlation between CEO duality and company success in the literature (i.e., the CEO serves as both Chairman of the Board and CEO). We refer to this relationship as a quasi-CEO-Chairman duality and examine its influence on company performance within the larger context of a developing economy, Bangladesh. Furthermore, as we take Bangladesh's context into consideration, there hasn't been any past research on this topic. Though a significant regulative action has been taken with regards to CEO duality in the 2012 revision of Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC)'s Corporate Governance Index, no policy or other regulatory measures have been taken to address such familial version of CEO duality.

Keywords: Family relationship, Corporate governance, CEO-Chairman duality, Firm performance, Emerging economy

JEL Classification: G30, L25

Suggested Citation:

Mazumder, Rana and Chakraborty, Ashok and Bhuiyan, Jahedul and Asma, Bebe, Does the Family Relationship of the CEO-Chairman Matter in Corporate Performance? Evidence from an Emerging Economy (May 2024). International Journal of Research Publication and Reviews, Vol 5, no 5, pp 3124-3135 May 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4823286
 Not Available for Download
61 References
S N Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performance among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
M A Abdussalam
An Empirical Study of Firm Structure and Profitability Relationship: The Case of Jordan
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 22 , issue 11 , p. 41 - 59 Posted: 2006
E E Abel
Firm size and corporate financial-leverage choice in a developing economy: Evidence from Nigeria
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 351 - 364 Posted: 2008
S Adedokun , A Oladimeji
Corporate governance and organizational performance
Issues in Corporate Governance Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies