Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Theory, Stakeholder Theory, and the Capital Budgeting Decision

Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 21, Issue 2, 2024

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024

Morris G. Danielson

Saint Joseph's University - Department of Finance

Karen M. Hogan

St. Joseph's University

Gerard T. Olson

Villanova University - School of Business

Date Written: April 22, 2024

Abstract

This paper constructs a capital budgeting framework within which Shareholder Theory and Stakeholder Theory are complements, not substitutes. Shareholder Theory focuses managerial attention on a single goal: the maximization of a firm’s long-term value. Stakeholder Theory identifies the necessary prerequisites for long-term value maximization. In particular, to create long-term value for shareholders, a firm must first create value for current and future customers and employees, and it must not do so at the expense of the broader community, or society as a whole. The new model is unique in that encourages managers making capital budgeting decisions to explicitly consider tail risks, defined as events that, while unlikely, could have a significant impact on a firm’s operations and valuation. Within this framework, the NPV rule provides an objective decision-rule to constrain managerial discretion and to balance the interests of competing stakeholders in the project selection process.

Keywords: shareholder theory, stakeholder theory, capital budgeting, NPV, risk management

JEL Classification: G11, G30, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Danielson, Morris G. and Hogan, Karen M. and Olson, Gerard T., Shareholder Theory, Stakeholder Theory, and the Capital Budgeting Decision (April 22, 2024). Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 21, Issue 2, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4826778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Almazan , Z Chen , S Titman
Firm investment and stakeholder choices: A top-down theory of capital budgeting
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 5 , p. 2179 - 2228 Posted: 2017
L A Bebchuk , R Tallarita
The illusory promise of stakeholder governance
Cornell Law Review , volume 106 , p. 91 - 178 Posted: 2020
M M Blair , L A Stout
A team production theory of corporate law
Virginia Law Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 247 - 328 Posted: 1999
R A Brealey , S C Myers , F Allen
Principles of corporate finance Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
186,854
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies