Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity: The Moderating Effect of Aggressive Management Practices on Earnings Persistence

32 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Guilherme O M Guimarães

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ)

Marcelo Alvaro Macedo

PPGCC/UFRJ

Abstract

We examine how earnings management and tax aggressiveness influence earnings persistence at various book-tax conformity (BTC) levels. Our motivation stems from the belief that varying BTC levels can alter the incentives and constraints that affect the relationship between discretionary management practices and earnings persistence. Using multiple regression analysis, we assess BTC's moderating effect using a database spanning 35 countries from 2010 to 2020. We find that BTC acts as a moderator, intensifying the negative relationship between earnings management and earnings persistence. Higher BTC levels exacerbate the adverse effects of earnings management. Conversely, in countries with higher BTC, earnings are more persistent under lower manipulation. In terms of tax aggressiveness, BTC's moderating effect also diminishes earnings persistence. Overall, potential modifications to legal structures in different countries, whether by increasing or decreasing BTC, carry non-negligible risks of impacting earnings quality.

Keywords: Book-tax Conformity (BTC), Earnings Persistence, Earnings Management, Tax Aggressiveness

Suggested Citation:

M Guimarães, Guilherme O and Macedo, Marcelo Alvaro, Book-Tax Conformity: The Moderating Effect of Aggressive Management Practices on Earnings Persistence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4827189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4827189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accouting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
332
RANK
872,402
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies