Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Industry Expertise Independent Directors on Corporate Financialization: The Case of Chinese Nonfinancial Corporations

23 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Xingxing He

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Lanli Qin

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Fenghui Zhang

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Yu Sun

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Abstract

China's economic development has faced multiple challenges, such as the weakening of traditional growth momentum, frequent risks in the financial sector, and prominent structural contradictions, and the phenomenon of capital flow from real enterprises to the virtual economy has become more and more prominent This paper takes A-share non-financial listed companies from 2010 to 2022 as the research object, and empirically examines the impact of industry expert independent directors on corporate financialization The results show that industry expert independent directors can effectively inhibit the financialization of enterprises, and the inhibition effect is more prominent in non-state-owned enterprises .The industry expert independent directors can inhibit the financialization of enterprises by narrowing the gap between corporate operating income and financial income, and alleviating internal and external financing constraints In addition, the higher the degree of marketization of the company's location, the stronger the inhibitory effect.

Keywords: Industry expert independent directors, Financialization of enterprises, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

He, Xingxing and Qin, Lanli and Zhang, Fenghui and Sun, Yu, The Impact of Industry Expertise Independent Directors on Corporate Financialization: The Case of Chinese Nonfinancial Corporations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4827201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4827201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Addisu , Lashitew
The Uneven Effect of Financial Constraints: Size, Public Ownership, and Firm Investment in Ethiopia
World Development , volume 97 , p. 178 - 198 Posted: 2017
David B Audretsch , Erik Lehmann
Entrepreneurial Access and Absorption of Knowledge Spillovers: Strategic Board and Managerial Composition for Competitive Advantage
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 166 Posted: 2006
Jing Bai , Xuesong Tang , Yuxin Zheng
Serving the Truth: Do Directors with Media Background Improve Financial Reporting Quality?
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 85 Posted: 2023
Bojun Hou , Jin Hong , Hongying Wang , Chongyang Zhou
Academia-Industry Collaboration, Government Funding and Innovation Efficiency in Chinese Industrial Enterprises
Technology Analysis & Strategic Management , volume 31 , issue 6 , p. 692 - 706 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies