Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigation of Tax Aggressiveness through Good Corporate Governance Company’s Website and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: Evidence-Concentrated Ownership Companies

15 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Citrawati Jatiningrum

Institut Bakti Nusantara; STMIK Pringsewu

Date Written: May 14, 2024

Abstract

Abstract
Purposes: This study aims to briefly prove the effect of Good Corporate Governance (GCG), the
Company’s Website, and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure (CSRD) on tax aggressiveness.
This study looks at businesses with a high ownership concentration level with the potential to expropriate minority ownership.
Methods: Purposive judgment sampling with multiple regression analysis was applied to a sample of
manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange.
Findings: The findings reveal that GCG has a significant effect on Tax aggressiveness, while CSR
disclosure activities also hurt tax aggressiveness. This evidence also proves that CSR activities carried out by the Company consistently reduce corporate tax aggressiveness. However, the Company’s
website has no discernible impact on tax aggressiveness.
Novelty: This study differs from previous studies because it considers Indonesia’s weak investor protection and concentrated ownership structures. There is a lack of prior studies on concentrated
ownership companies and the relationship between good corporate governance, corporate social
responsibility disclosure, and company websites on tax aggressiveness

Keywords: Good Corporate Governance, Corporate Social responsibility Disclosure, Tax Aggressiveness, Concentrated Ownership

JEL Classification: -

Suggested Citation:

Jatiningrum, Citrawati, Mitigation of Tax Aggressiveness through Good Corporate Governance Company’s Website and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: Evidence-Concentrated Ownership Companies (May 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4827245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4827245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
V Adela , S K Agyei , P J Atta
Antecedents of tax aggressiveness of listed non-financial firms: evidence from an emerging economy
Scientific African , volume 20 Posted: 2023
C B Ali
Corporate governance, principal-principal agency conflicts, and disclosure
The Journal of Applied Business Research , issue 2 , p. 419 - 432 Posted: 2014-03
Q Alkhazaleh , A Shahbudin , A Ghazali
The Relationship Between Corporate Governance Mechanisms and CSR Disclosure: Evidence from Jordanian's Listed Firms
Journal of Public Administration and Governance , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 68 Posted: 2022
K Al-Qeisi , C Dennis , E Alamanos , C Jayawardhena
Website design quality and usage behavior: Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology
Journal of Business Research , volume 67 , issue 11 , p. 2282 - 2290 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
RANK
759,678
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies