Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Covid-19 on ESG Performance and Financial Reporting Quality in Egypt

ElHawary, E. and Elbolok, R. (2024), "The implications of COVID-19 on ESG performance and financial reporting quality in Egypt", Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-08-2023-0469

Posted: 16 May 2024

Engy Elhawary

The British University in Egypt - Faculty of Business Administration, Economics, and Political Science

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – This examine the impact of environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance on
financial reporting quality (FRQ) before and during COVID-19 in the Egyptian market.
Design/methodology/approach – This study uses quarterly data from 2017 to 2021 to draw
conclusions, with a sample consisting of 486 firm-year observations for 27 Egyptian companies listed on the
Standard and Poor’s/Egyptian Stock Exchange ESG index. This study uses both firms’ ESG scores and the
Beneish Model, an earnings detection model, as proxies for FRQ. COVID-19 effects on ESG performance and
FRQ were examined by using Pearson’s correlation coefficient and two-stage least squares.
Findings – COVID-19 has a significant impact on the link between ESG and FRQ. This implies that
corporations with high ESG performance are less likely to manipulate earnings (having a low M-score) and
thus provide high FRQ during the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, there is a significant positive relationship
between firm size, leverage and M-Score, indicating that large firms typically present a high FRQ.
Research limitations/implications – The sample size and data availability are the main research
limitations. Additionally, this study only considers the effects of firms’ ESG performance on FRQ during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Thus, future research should consider other factors associated with investors’ corporate
social responsibility (CSR).
Practical implications – This research has practical implications for market regulators seeking to
establish a legislative framework and enhance guidance to mandate managers to provide ESG data and CSR
reports appropriate for Egypt and other developing economies in times of crisis.
Social implications – Promoting the adoption of ESG practices in business, particularly during crises,
has the potential to effectively provide high-quality and reliable financial reporting required for investment.
Originality/value – This study aspires to address notable deficiencies in the pertinent literature
concerning the relationship between ESG performance and FRQ during COVID-19. To the best of the authors’
knowledge, little is known about how ESG performance changes in response to pandemics in emerging
markets. To address this gap, this study examines the effects of COVID-19 on the relationship between ESG
performance and FRQ in Egyptian-listed firms from 2017 to 2021.

Keywords: Egypt, ESG performance, Beneish model, COVID-19, Financial reporting quality, Earnings management, CSR

JEL Classification: C310, C330, G32, G180, M140, M480

Suggested Citation:

Elhawary, Engy, The Implications of Covid-19 on ESG Performance and Financial Reporting Quality in Egypt (May 15, 2024). ElHawary, E. and Elbolok, R. (2024), "The implications of COVID-19 on ESG performance and financial reporting quality in Egypt", Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFRA-08-2023-0469, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4828894
 Not Available for Download
134 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: the case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 Posted: 2020
Z Abdelmoneim , M Elghazaly
Covid-19 implications for corporate social responsibility, corporate governance and profitability in banks: the case of Egypt
, volume 16 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
R Abdul Rahman , M F Alsayegh
Determinants of corporate environment, social and governance (ESG) reporting among Asian firms
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
B Ademi , N J Klungseth
Does it pay to deliver superior ESG performance? Evidence from US S&P 500 companies
Journal of Global Responsibility , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 449 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies