Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Catering Incentives in ESG Disclosure

International Journal of Disclosure and Governance

41 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2024

King Fuei Lee

Schroder Investment Management

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper introduces a catering hypothesis of ESG disclosure, where managers adjust their disclosure policies based on investor valuation of high-disclosure companies. The study examines 2,207 US-listed firms from 2005-2022, and finds a significant positive relationship between the ESG disclosure premium and firm ESG reporting. Managers respond to prevailing investor demand for ESG data by disclosing more when investors place a stock price premium on companies with high disclosure levels and disclosing less when investors prefer companies with low disclosure levels. This research enriches sustainability accounting literature by exploring the impact of managerial decision-making and investor demand on ESG disclosure, providing insights for stakeholders and policy development. It also expands understanding of the connection between corporate policy, sustainability, and catering considerations, benefiting stakeholders, directors, and investors interested in improving ESG practices and capital allocation for sustainable development.

Keywords: ESG disclosure, ESG reporting, sustainability reporting, catering incentives, catering effects, disclosure premium

JEL Classification: Q56, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, King Fuei, The Role of Catering Incentives in ESG Disclosure (May 15, 2024). International Journal of Disclosure and Governance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4828274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
T Adam , V Goyal
The Investment Opportunity Set and its Proxy Variables
Journal of Financial Research , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 63 Posted: 2008
B Adhikari , A Agrawal
Peer Influence on Payout Policies
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 48 , p. 615 - 637 Posted: 2018
A Alazzani , W Wan-Hussin , M Jones , A Al-Hadi
ESG Reporting and Analysts' Recommendations in GCC: The Moderation Role of Royal Family Directors
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Risk: Theory and Empirical Evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
328
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies