Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Ecological Investments. The Case of French Industry

55 Pages Posted: 15 May 2024

Simon Nadel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Magali Savès

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines the links between corporate governance and ecological investment decisions, by focusing on corporate governance mechanisms aimed at democratizing decision-making: integration of new actors in decision-making, development of ecological competencies within the firm, and the introduction of sustainability criteria in its management. Our study is based on an original database of 1,387 firms, representative of 8,660 French industrial firms with more than 20 employees. Our results show that corporate governance mechanisms encouraging firms to initiate ecological investment differ from those contributing to intensifying these investments.Corporate government mechanisms aimed at integrating new actors in decision-making have mixed effects on ecological investment decisions. If the integration of external stakeholders plays a central positive role, the integration of employees in decision-making structures, on the contrary, has either an insignificant or a negative impact. Corporate governance mechanisms aimed at developing ecological competencies have a significant positive impact on the initiation and on the intensification of ecological investments. Finally, the adoption of sustainability criteria in firm management, via the introduction of sustainable management tools and ecological certifications, has a key positive role in the intensification of ecological investments, while the adoption of executives’ compensation has a negative impact.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, ecological investments, French industrial firms, stakeholder integration

Suggested Citation:

Nadel, Simon and Savès, Magali, Corporate Governance and Ecological Investments. The Case of French Industry. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4829531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4829531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Dérives du capitalisme financier Posted: 2004
R V Aguilera , J A Aragón-Correa , V Marano , P A Tashman
The Corporate Governance of Environmental Sustainability: A Review and Proposal for More Integrated Research
Journal of Management , volume 47 , issue 6 Posted: 2021
F A Almaqtari , T Elsheikh , H M Al-Hattami , N Mishra
The impact of board characteristics on environmentally friendly production: A cross country study in Asia and Europe
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 392 Posted: 2023
E Alt , E P Díez-De-Castro , F J Lloréns-Montes
Linking Employee Stakeholders to Environmental Performance: The Role of Proactive Environmental Strategies and Shared Vision
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 128 , issue 1 , p. 167 - 181 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies