Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunism in Crisis: Big Baths and Covid-19 Disclosure

36 Pages Posted: 16 May 2024

meng guo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

chen liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Danglun Luo

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Abstract

We investigate the tools that managers use to conceal accounting big baths in times of crisis. Our study is based on 7,623 firm-year observations of A-share listed companies in China during the COVID-19 pandemic. The empirical evidence suggests that during the COVID-19 pandemic, managers are more likely to take advantage of the crisis to engage in big baths. Specifically, managers who engage in big baths tend to convey a more negative tone regarding the pandemic in financial reports and utilize the pandemic for self-serving attribution. Additionally, managers have a heightened motivation to use COVID-19 disclosures to conceal big baths with more opportunistic intent, such as big baths taken in the fourth quarter, leading to negative earnings surprises, and associated with non-goodwill asset accounts. The correlation between big baths and a negative pandemic tone is less pronounced for firms with more transparency of information disclosure, greater analyst attention, CEO duality, and higher management ownership. Furthermore, we find that using the COVID-19 pandemic as a cover can reduce the stock price crash risk caused by big baths. The findings of this study raise concerns for stakeholders about the opportunistic nature of earnings manipulation and discretionary disclosure during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Keywords: Big baths, the COVID-19 pandemic, COVID-19 Tone, Self-serving attribution

Suggested Citation:

guo, meng and liu, chen and Luo, Danglun, Opportunism in Crisis: Big Baths and Covid-19 Disclosure. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4829082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4829082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
A A Aljughaiman , T H Nguyen , V Q Trinh , A Du
The Covid-19 outbreak, corporate financial distress and earnings management
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 88 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
747,544
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies