Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monthly Reporting on Organization Performance

SSRN Electronic Journal, 0[10.2139/ssrn.4830384]

143 Pages Posted: 20 May 2024 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Geoff Williams

GLW Analysis Services Pty Ltd; Institute of Management Accountants (IMA); CPA Australia; Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand

Date Written: May 3, 2024

Abstract

This paper suggests monthly reporting for organizations include separate financial summaries and operational summaries. They enable CEOs and directors to monitor both continuity business and strategic change within the organization. The paper is based on:

·         A review of academic research on strategic planning and reporting.

·         Brief references to professional standards.

·         Studies and reports of corporate failures.

·         Reports of three major accidents linked to compliance failures.

Published studies and reports show Internal weaknesses as major contributors to organization failures and major accidents. 

This paper links business continuity and change objectives with performance metrics for important stakeholders. It suggests a comprehensive monthly reporting system to disclose opportunities and threats.

Discussion includes financial performance, stakeholder metrics, governance, forecasting, security, and scenario planning.

The paper provides an example linking a strategic plan for an SME to a monthly report. Designed for executives and consultants, not academics, the paper is in active voice and includes practical examples of financial and operational reports.

The author welcomes comments and reviews sent to the email address included in the contact details below.

Keywords: business performance, non-financial indicators, stakeholders, cash flow, monthly reporting, forecasting, governance, key performance indicators, strategic plan

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Geoff, Monthly Reporting on Organization Performance (May 3, 2024). SSRN Electronic Journal, 0[10.2139/ssrn.4830384], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4830384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Cima Aicpa , Frf ; Marc-Thrasybule , Spence Nancy , Stroe Peter , Witt Raluca , Ken
Financial Reporting Framework for Small-and Medium-Sized Entities
for Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, a joint venture of AICPA and the Association of International Certified Professional Accountants "Integrated Performance Management" World Council for Sustainable Development Posted: 2017-11
Aiexpert
Case Study: Rio Tinto Scales Machine Learning for Predictive Maintenance, Safety, and Sustainable Operations
AIExpert Network October , volume 25 Posted: 2024
Alles Michael , G , Dai Jun , A Vasarhelyi Miklos
Editorial Reporting 4.0: Business Reporting for the Age of Mass Customization
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Sanjiv Anand
Execution Excellence Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,014
RANK
362,694
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies