Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Formal Communications with the PCAOB and Sec: Linguistic Characteristics of Comment Letters Formal Communications with the PCAOB (Short Title)

46 Pages Posted: 16 May 2024

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Amanda Convery

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Renee Flasher

Penn State Harrisburg

Abstract

The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 mandated that the PCAOB focus on protecting the investor and public interests and restricted the auditing profession’s involvement in creating auditing standards. We explore the linguistic characteristics auditors use when participating in standard setting. Specifically, we examine the comment letters auditors submit on auditing standards to the PCAOB and SEC to understand how these professionals engaged in the tiered regulatory system of the past two decades. Leveraging a cross-sectional panel of 1,447 comment letters, our analysis reveals that auditors' comment letters convey more analytical thinking and clout and less spontaneous (i.e., authentic) language than the control group of issuers' financial reporting professionals. Interestingly, linguistic characteristics change across regulators. When addressing the SEC, we find no difference between auditors and issuers in their use of analytic language. However, auditors' comment letters exhibit a greater use of language demonstrating clout and a positive tone with the SEC than when they address the PCAOB. We discuss implications for future research.

Keywords: Auditing standard, Standard setting, Linguistic characteristics, PCAOB, SEC

Suggested Citation:

Boland, Colleen M. and Convery, Amanda and Flasher, Renee, Examining Formal Communications with the PCAOB and Sec: Linguistic Characteristics of Comment Letters Formal Communications with the PCAOB (Short Title). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4830162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Abbott
The system of professions: An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang , B Pomeroy
Using LIWC to analyze participants' psychological processing in accounting JDM research
Audit: J. Pract. Theor , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2022
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y H A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
J. Acc. Econ , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
Report of the special committee of the AICPA to study the structure of the auditing standards executive committee
J. Account , p. 131 - 138 Posted: 1978
Load more
1 Citations
Xiaoshuai Yang , Joseph H. Zhang
Stakeholder activities in PCAOB audit standard setting: a manual content analysis of comment letter submissions
Managerial Auditing Journal Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
812,529
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies