Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Policy and Natural Capital Accounting: Assessing Impacts, Challenges, and Pathways to Sustainable Resource Management

20 Pages Posted: 17 May 2024 Last revised: 18 May 2024

Elisha Adeboye

Austin Peay State University

Victor Ekere

University of Ibadan

Gbemisola Labisi

Morgan State University

Date Written: September 20, 2023

Abstract

This article examines the pivotal role of US government policies in advancing Natural Capital Accounting (NCA) for sustainable resource management. Natural Capital Accounting is a fundamental component of sustainability that necessitates accurate measurement and integration of natural resources into economic systems. This article critically assesses extant governmental policy frameworks, appraising their conformity with global standards and their implications for Natural Capital Accounting (NCA) within the public sector. It delves into the favorable consequences stemming from the deliberate adoption of NCA driven by policies, meticulously examining the economic advantages and enhanced corporate reporting that ensue. Challenges and barriers associated with policy implementation are identified by providing insights into potential areas for enhancement. Case studies highlight successful NCA initiatives by shedding light on practical applications and lessons learned. The article offers tailored recommendations and a step-by-step framework to aid US policymakers in effectively integrating NCA. Lastly, it anticipates future policy trends, emphasizing the essentiality of sustained research and policy innovation to fortify NCA and bolster sustainable resource management in the United States.

Keywords: Natural Capital Accounting; Government policies; Sustainable resource management; Environmental conservation; Environmental sustainability; Economic implications

Suggested Citation:

Adeboye, Elisha and Ekere, Victor and Labisi, Gbemisola, Government Policy and Natural Capital Accounting: Assessing Impacts, Challenges, and Pathways to Sustainable Resource Management (September 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4830180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The impact of governmental accounting standards on public-sector pension funding
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 49 Posted: 2023
K J Bagstad , J C Ingram , C D Shapiro , A La Notte , J Maes , S Vallecillo , . . Voigt , B
Lessons learned from development of natural capital accounts in the United States and European Union
Ecosystem Services , volume 52 Posted: 2021
K J Bagstad , J C Ingram , C D Shapiro , A La Notte , J Maes , S Vallecillo , . . Voigt , B
Lessons learned from development of natural capital accounts in the United States and European Union
Ecosystem Services , volume 52 Posted: 2021
K J Bagstad , J C Ingram , C D Shapiro , A La Notte , J Maes , S Vallecillo , . . Voigt , B
Lessons learned from development of natural capital accounts in the United States and European Union
Ecosystem Services , volume 52 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
819,493
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies