Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Managerial Capital Gains Taxes Increase Deception: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk

57 Pages Posted: 20 May 2024

Busra Agcayazi

Howard University School of Business; New York University Stern School of Business ; West Virginia University

Gunratan Lonare

Illinois State University

Timothy E. Trombley

Illinois State University

Date Written: March 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of CEOs’ unrealized capital gains tax liability on the likelihood of a stock price crash. We find that stock price crash risk increases significantly with the CEO’s tax burden. This risk increases when the CEO concurrently holds the position of chairman, the CEO’s personal wealth is more exposed to the firm, transient institutional ownership is high, or dedicated institutional ownership is low. We find evidence that one potential underlying mechanism is the CEO concealing negative news during earnings calls. The main results remain robust to various endogeneity checks, including a change analysis, the Tax Relief Act of 1997 as an exogenous shock, instrumental variables, and entropy balancing.

Keywords: Stock Price Crash Risk, CEO Tax Burden, Bad News Hoarding, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G12, G30, G32, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Agcayazi, Busra and Lonare, Gunratan and Trombley, Timothy E., How Managerial Capital Gains Taxes Increase Deception: Evidence from Stock Price Crash Risk (March 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4830833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from Institutional Investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
478,373
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies