Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Notching Foreign Equity Share with Corporate Income Tax Cuts

68 Pages Posted: 17 May 2024

Chunru Zheng

University of Virginia - Department of Economics

Phil Huang

Vanderbilt University

Rui Zhang

Peking University, China Center for Economic Research (CCER), Students

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

We evaluate a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) preferential policy in China that provides a corporate tax reduction for firms with foreign equity shares no less than 25%. We find that a massive number of multinational firms in China choose to bunch their foreign ownership share at the 25% level, which leads to a 20.8% increase in the total FDI. Meanwhile, we observe a jump-down in firms’ sizes and total factor productivity around the tax notch. To expound on this phenomenon, we construct a model where joint ventures make their ownership structure decisions with incomplete contracts under the tax policy. By aligning our model with empirical data, we find that: First, smaller firms with lower total factor productivity are more responsive to this policy. Second, the government sacrifices 19.38% of the tax revenue collected from the foreign-invested firms to bring in more FDI. Last, almost half of the tax benefit is spent to cover the adjustment cost and production loss from firms’ bunching behaviors.

Keywords: FDI, Corporate Tax, Bunching, Ownership Structure

JEL Classification: F1, F2, H2

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Chunru and Huang, Phil and Zhang, Rui, Notching Foreign Equity Share with Corporate Income Tax Cuts (May 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4831172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4831172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Acemoglu , P Antrã S , E Helpman
Contracts and technology adoption
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 916 - 943 Posted: 2007
D A Ackerberg , K Caves , G Frazer
Identification properties of recent production function estimators
Econometrica , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 2411 - 2451 Posted: 2015
B J Aitken , A E Harrison
Do domestic firms benefit from direct foreign investment? evidence from venezuela
American economic review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 605 - 618 Posted: 1999
L Alfaro , D Chor , P Antras , P Conconi
Internalizing global value chains: A firm-level analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 127 , issue 2 , p. 508 - 559 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
724,439
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies