Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Traversing Distances: Parent-Subsidiary Proximity and Corporate Disclosure Quality

31 Pages Posted: 18 May 2024

Xiaomei Liu

Xijing University

Hui Jin

Xijing University

Zhenhe Yang

Xijing University

Boyuan Gao

Xijing University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study investigates how the proximity between parent and subsidiary is associated with the quality of corporate information disclosure. We further examine the mediating role of corporate governance on the relationship between the parent-subsidiary proximity and quality of corporate information disclosure. Adopting one of the largest datasets to-date of Chinese listed firms over the 2003 to 2015 period, the study find that the greater the proximity between parent and subsidiary companies, the lower the quality of corporate information disclosure. Furthermore, corporate governance has a significant mediating effect on the relationship between parent-subsidiary proximity and the quality of information disclosure. This study not only reveals the intrinsic relationship between parent-subsidiary proximity, corporate governance, and information disclosure quality but also provides reference for listed companies to prudently choose diversification strategies, improve information disclosure quality, and expand corporate governance ideas.

Keywords: parent and subsidiary, geographical spatial distance, institutional environment distance, information disclosure quality, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiaomei and Jin, Hui and Yang, Zhenhe and Gao, Boyuan, Traversing Distances: Parent-Subsidiary Proximity and Corporate Disclosure Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4832639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
N Ayari
Geographic Distance and R&D Activities of Subsidiaries Located in Spain
Region et Developpement , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 203 - 224 Posted: 2010
J H Bae , R Salomon
Institutional distance in international business research
The Past, Present and Future of International Business & Management , volume 23 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2010
P G Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
355
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies