Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Staging of Earnings Conference Calls around Actual Share Repurchases

69 Pages Posted: 18 May 2024

Hong Kim Duong

Old Dominion University

Chuong Do

University of Nevada, Reno

Huy Do

The University of Tulsa

Date Written: May 17, 2024

Abstract

We use earnings call transcripts to examine whether managers strategically change their disclosure behaviors before an actual share repurchase. Our findings suggest that managers use tone management to strategically portray a more negative outlook for the firm in the earnings call before an actual repurchase. In addition, we find that managers of repurchasing firms “cast” the call with more unfavorable analysts even when more favorable analysts are available. These disclosure strategies aim to influence the information flows to the market and allow repurchasing firms to repurchase their shares at a discounted price. We further show that insiders of repurchasing firms adjust their subsequent stock trading accordingly. Following more negative conference calls, insiders exhibit a tendency to increase share repurchases or reduce sales of company shares. Our findings underscore the increasingly sophisticated disclosure strategies employed by managers to wield influence over information dynamics in the market leading up to share repurchases.

Keywords: Earnings Conference Call, Tone Management, Conference Call Casting, Actual Share Repurchase, Repurchasing Price, Insider Trade

JEL Classification: G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Duong, Hong Kim and Do, Chuong and Do, Huy, Managers’ Staging of Earnings Conference Calls around Actual Share Repurchases (May 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4832120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2020
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
M Bamber , S Abraham
On the "realities" of investor-manager interactivity: Baudrillard, hyperreality, and management Q&A sessions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1290 - 1325 Posted: 2020
M L Banyi , E A Dyl , K M Kahle
Errors in estimating share repurchases
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 460 - 474 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
872,402
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies