Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Memory, Retrieved Context, and Bias in Management Earnings Forecasts

Management Science, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 20 May 2024 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

David S. Koo

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Isabel Yanyan Wang

Michigan State University

Shuting Wu

California State University Fullerton

Date Written: May 17, 2024

Abstract

The impact of memory on economic choices can be essential, but empirical evidence of the link between them remains scarce. This study examines whether the retrieval of memories related to economic recessions affects the changes in the bias in management forecasts. Using the 2008 financial crisis as a memory trigger and focusing on annual management earnings forecasts issued for fiscal years ending between 2002 and 2018, we find that CEOs with more long-term memories of leading through past recessions and those with more intense recent memories of the financial crisis embed greater pessimism in their forecasts after the financial crisis. These findings support the retrieved-context theory in human memory, as well as the availability heuristic and the recency effect in psychology. Further analyses show that it takes about three years for the increased pessimism in management forecasts to return to the pre-crisis level, mainly for CEOs with more memories of past recessions. These findings suggest that memory retrieval may delay managers’ learning after the financial crisis. Our study offers new insights into the role that memory plays in managers’ decision-making.

Keywords: memory, retrieved-context theory, availability heuristic, recency effect, experience, management earnings forecast

JEL Classification: M40, G02

Suggested Citation:

Koo, David S. and Wang, Isabel and Wu, Shuting, Memory, Retrieved Context, and Bias in Management Earnings Forecasts (May 17, 2024). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4832368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
A Ahmed , B Christensen , A Olson , C Yust
Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors with Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes around the Global Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
S Andersen , T Hanspal , K M Nielsen
Once Bitten, Twice Shy: The Power of Personal Experiences in Risk Taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 132 , issue 3 , p. 97 - 117 Posted: 2019
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
B Baik , D B Farber , S Lee
CEO Ability and Management Earnings Forecasts †. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
446,506
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies