Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Eco-Innovation: Adoption, Barriers, Enablers and Performace Outcomes

48 Pages Posted: 19 May 2024

Nazrul Islam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ali Mammadov

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

While the importance of eco-innovation (EI) in meeting environmental and social standards is widely recognized, the existing literature does not provide a comprehensive understanding of its effects on firm performance and the contingencies influencing the outcomes. This study investigates the drivers and consequences of EI adoption, focusing on its impact on various aspects of organizational performance across diverse industries, regions, and countries. We conduct a systematic literature review (SLR) of peer-reviewed articles extracted from Scopus and Web of Science databases published between 2005 and 2022. We examine how firms harness market and regulatory drivers, develop absorptive capacity, and leverage managerial capabilities to foster EI. We meticulously map out the interconnectedness of various types of innovations—product, process, and organizational—and their confluence in driving firm performance. Our findings contribute to the literature in several ways. First, we employ a unique framework that integrates both the antecedents and outcomes of EI, provide a more comprehensive understanding of the EI-firm performance link, and identify the key drivers and barriers highlighting the role of market, technological dynamics, firm-specific factors, and institutional regulations in either promoting or hindering EI efforts. Second, we categorize the outcomes of EI adoption into economic and non-economic performance metrics, demonstrating the significant impact of EI on both dimensions. Third, we establish the relationships between different types of EI and their corresponding performance outcomes. Our study proposes several directions for future research, including examining the long-term consequences of EI adoption and exploring the role of cross-sector collaborations in promoting sustainable innovation.

Keywords: Eco-innovation, Firm performance, Drivers, Barrier, Economic effects, Environmental effects, Conceptual framework

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Nazrul and Mammadov, Ali, Eco-Innovation: Adoption, Barriers, Enablers and Performace Outcomes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4833350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4833350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
166 References
N A Abu Seman , K Govindan , A Mardani , N Zakuan , M Z Mat Saman , R E Hooker , S Ozkul
The mediating effect of green innovation on the relationship between green supply chain management and environmental performance
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 229 , p. 115 - 127 Posted: 2019
J Aguilera-Caracuel , N Ortiz-De-Mandojana
Green Innovation and Financial Performance: An Institutional Approach
Organization and Environment , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2013
M Ahmad , P Jiang , M Murshed , K Shehzad , R Akram , L Cui , Z Khan ; Ahmad , M , Y Wu
Modelling the dynamic linkages between eco-innovation, urbanization, economic growth and ecological footprints for G7 countries: Does financial globalization matter?
Journal of Environmental Management , volume 70 Posted: 2021
S Al-Shami , N Rashid
A holistic model of dynamic capabilities and environment management system towards eco-product innovation and sustainability in automobile firms
Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 402 - 416 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
RANK
667,795
166 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies