Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Political Polarization: Evidence from an SEC Shutdown and Its Effect on Insider Trading

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2025/12/ACC

51 Pages Posted: 21 May 2024 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Daniel A. Bens

University of New Hampshire, Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics, Students

Gavin Cassar

INSEAD

Ying Huang

INSEAD

Thomas Keusch

INSEAD

Date Written: August 26, 2025

Abstract

We examine on a one-month period when SEC activity largely stopped during a U.S. government shutdown to examine whether variation in SEC scrutiny affects its ability to enforce insider trading. Difference-in-differences analyses suggest insiders earn abnormal profits during the shutdown and the findings are robust to using different control periods and groups. We estimate that it takes roughly one week before the abnormally profitable trading begins, consistent with insiders increasing their beliefs regarding the duration and disruption of the shutdown. Supporting the claim that SEC regulatory activity drops with the shutdown and does not fully recover afterwards, we find a decline in the frequency of insider trading enforcement releases, investigations, and comment letter issuances after the SEC resumes operations. Our study speaks to the SEC insider trading enforcement literature and economic consequences of a regulatory discontinuity in a divisive political climate.

Keywords: Governance, Insider Trading, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bens, Daniel A. and Cassar, Gavin and Huang, Ying and Keusch, Thomas, Economic Consequences of Political Polarization: Evidence from an SEC Shutdown and Its Effect on Insider Trading (August 26, 2025). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2025/12/ACC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4836095 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4836095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-section and Time-series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
D Bens , M Cheng , M Neamtiu
The Impact of SEC Disclosure Monitoring on the Uncertainty of Fair Value Estimates
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 375 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
293,623
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies