Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Mutual Funds Respond to Mechanical Changes in ESG Ratings?

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 981/2024

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4836697

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

69 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024 Last revised: 26 Aug 2025

Seungju Choi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Fabrizio Ferri

University of Miami - Miami Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Date Written: August 06, 2025

Abstract

Using a quasi-experimental setting, we study whether mutual fund investors respond to a purely mechanical change in ESG ratings––i.e., a change independent of concurrent changes in firms’ actual ESG activities. We find that when a firm experiences a mechanical increase in ESG ratings, the probability of being selected by an ESG fund increases (extensive margin). In contrast, if the firm is already in the fund’s portfolio, its holdings do not change (intensive margin), consistent with portfolio weighting being based on market capitalization. The selection effect is observable not only among funds that follow an ESG index but also among active ESG funds, which presumably should have the resources and ability to identify and filter out the mechanical increase in ESG ratings. Among active ESG funds, the selection effect is stronger for funds with less assets under management, larger portfolios of firms, and lower expense ratios, consistent with the notion that resource constraints may impede a fund’s screening ability. Our findings imply that passive investing based on commercial ESG ratings––whether due to resource constraints or portfolio indexing––might result in portfolio allocations that do not reflect the actual ESG activities of firms.

Keywords: ESG, Ratings, Information Intermediaries, Mutual Funds, Portfolio Selection

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Seungju and Ferri, Fabrizio and Macciocchi, Daniele, Do Mutual Funds Respond to Mechanical Changes in ESG Ratings? (August 06, 2025). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 981/2024, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4836697, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4836697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4836697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Agrawal , L Y Liu , S Rajgopal , S A Sridharan , Y Yan , T L Yohn
ESG Ratings of ESG Index Providers Posted: 2023
R Basu , X Chen , J Naughton
The Regulatory Role of Credit Ratings and Voluntary Disclosures
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2022
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen , S Hirst
The agency problems of institutional investors
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 89 - 112 Posted: 2017
F Berg , K Fabisik , Z Sautner
Is history repeating itself? The (un) predictable past of ESG ratings. The (Un) Predictable Past of ESG Ratings , volume 708 Posted: 2020-08-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,864
RANK
142,252
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies