Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Retail Investor Attention Deter or Promote Earnings Management? Evidence from Interactive Platforms

47 Pages Posted: 21 May 2024

Yurou Liu

Southwest Jiaotong University

Huixia Chen

Renmin University of China - School of Business; City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of retail investor attention on managers’ earnings management behaviors. Do retail investors act as active monitors to managers and thus constrain managerial discretion, or do they put excessive pressure on managers and thus encourage earnings management? Using individuals’ posts on the interactive platform in China as a measure of retail investor attention, we find that increased retail investor attention pressures managers to manage earnings more, consistent with the pressure effect. The results are robust to alternative measures, a lead-lag model, and a difference-in-differences test. Further, we find that the proportion of financial-related posts is positively associated with firms’ earnings management behavior. Cross-sectional tests indicate that the pressure effect is more pronounced in firms with higher financing constraints and firms located in weaker legal environments. Overall, our results suggest that the tendency of retail investors to fixate on financial performance stresses managers to engage in more earnings management.

Keywords: Investor attention, Retail investors, Earnings management, Interactive platforms, Managerial myopia

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yurou and Chen, Huixia, Does Retail Investor Attention Deter or Promote Earnings Management? Evidence from Interactive Platforms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4836433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4836433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
J S Ang , C Hsu , D Tang , C Wu
The role of social media in corporate governance
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
S M Bainbridge
Director primacy and shareholder disempowerment
Harvard Law Review , volume 119 , p. 1735 - 1758 Posted: 2006
B M Barber , T Odean
Trading is hazardous to your wealth: The common stock investment performance of individual investors
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2000
Load more
1 Citations
Yaoyao Li , Tianmei Wang , Junyao Wu , Haoming Lin
Impact of retail shareholders on corporate green transformation: a deep learning analysis
Applied Economics , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
631,426
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies