Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Integration of ESG Disclosure and Green Financing Improve Firm Performance: Practical Applications of Stakeholders Theory
Heliyon

21 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024 Publication Status: Published

Ashfaq Habib

University of Poonch Rawalakot Azad Kashmir

Judit Oláh

University of Debrecen

Mushtaq Hussain

Cardiff Metropolitan University

Lubos Smutka

Czech University of Life Sciences Prague (CULS)

Abstract

Drawing upon the lens of stakeholder theory, this paper explores the association between ESG disclosure, green finance, and the performance of Chinese firms, while considering the presence of a competitive edge in terms of financing costs. By integrating ESG disclosure and green finance, firms can efficiently manage their financial resources and operate in an environmentally friendly manner. Besides, to gain stakeholder legitimacy, firms can exploit green finance to balance the triple bottom-line principle of People-Planet-Profit. For empirical investigation, the Two-stage Least-squares Cluster (2SLS-cluster) Regression method is used. The study uses data from a sample of Chinese firms over the period of 2014 to 2022. We find a positive and significant link between green finance and ESG disclosure. Our results further reveal that the competitive edge of firms in terms of financing costs moderates the relationship between green finance, ESG disclosures, and firm performance. These insights contribute to the extant literature on sustainable finance and have important implications for policymakers.

Keywords: Chinese firms, Competitive advantage, ESG, firm performance, green finance

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ashfaq and Oláh, Judit and Hussain, Mushtaq and Smutka, Lubos, Does Integration of ESG Disclosure and Green Financing Improve Firm Performance: Practical Applications of Stakeholders Theory. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L C Leonidou
Environmentally friendly export business strategy: Its determinants and effects on competitive advantage and performance
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 798 - 811 Posted: 2015
N Zhu
Green financial behavior and green development strategy of Chinese power companies in the context of carbon tax
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 245 Posted: 2020
K Schumacher , H Chenet , U Volz
Sustainable finance in Japan
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 213 - 246 Posted: 2020
I Zumente , J Bistrova
ESG importance for long-term shareholder value creation: Literature vs. practice
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 7 , issue 2 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies