Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Identity or Social Capital: Local CEOS and Corporate ESG Performance

29 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Shoufu Yang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Management Science and Engineering

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Jiaqiong He

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

With environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) become an indispensable consideration in business decisions, differences between ESG and corporate social responsibility (CSR) has gradually attracted attention. But previous scholars mainly investigated the differences from a qualitative perspective, few proved by empirical methods. Based on the data of 1,807 Chinese listed private firms from 2010–2021, we investigate the impact of local CEOs on corporate ESG performance and its mechanisms from the dual perspectives of social identity and social capital. We then empirically identify the differences between ESG and CSR by testing how local CEOs respond differently to CSR and ESG in different scenarios. We find that firms whose CEOs’ birthplace is located in the same city as the location of their corporate headquarters have better ESG performance. The mechanism analysis indicates that local CEOs enhance their ESG performance due to stronger hometown identity rather than social capital. Further analysis found that when companies experience rapid changes in their internal and external environments, local CEOs practice less CSR, but continue to prioritize ESG, shows the company 's differentiated attitude towards CSR and ESG.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, Informal institutions, Hometown identity, Social capital

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Shoufu and Kong, Dongmin and He, Jiaqiong, Social Identity or Social Capital: Local CEOS and Corporate ESG Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
P S Adler , S.-W Kwon
Social capital: Prospects for a new concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
M Al-Shammari , A Rasheed , H A Al-Shammari
CEO narcissism and corporate social responsibility: does CEO narcissism affect CSR focus
Journal of Business Research , volume 104 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2019
B Asante-Appiah , T A Lambert
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
596,846
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies