Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Digital Technology Innovation on Corporate ESG Performance: Empirical Evidence from Listed Firms in China

21 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Menghan Wang

Guizhou University

Qi Zhao

Guizhou University

Xiaoping Tang

Guizhou University

Xiaoxiao Gong

Guizhou University

Abstract

In the present era of the digital economy, digital technology innovation has emerged as a pivotal factor in propelling economic development of high quality and sustainability. This study uses the data of all A-share listed firms in China from 2011 to 2021 to estimate the effects of digital technology innovation on the corporate ESG performance. The empirical analysis showed that digital technology innovation significantly improves corporate ESG performance. We also found that digital technology innovation enhances corporate ESG performance by fostering green innovation, augmenting the quality of internal controls, and facilitating an increase in total factor productivity. Further analyses found that the promotional effect of digital technology innovation on ESG performance is greater in firms with high investor attention compared to those with low investor attention. Corporates that are highly intellectual property protection benefit more from digital technology innovation. The positive effect of digital technology innovation on ESG performance is greater for firms highly environmentally regulated. This study has important implications for the formulation of policies related to digital technology innovation and strategic decision-making in the sustainable development of enterprises.

Keywords: Digital technology innovation, ESG, Sustainable development

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Menghan and Zhao, Qi and Tang, Xiaoping and Gong, Xiaoxiao, The Effects of Digital Technology Innovation on Corporate ESG Performance: Empirical Evidence from Listed Firms in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
M Annunziata , H Bourgeois
The future of work: how G20 countries can leverage digital-industrial innovations into stronger high quality jobs growth
Economics , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: how technology displaces and reinstates labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
T U K Babilla
Digital innovation and financial access for small and mediumsized enterprises in a currency union
Economic Modelling , p. 120 - 106182 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
6 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies