Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Nationality and Us Payout Policy

15 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Nacasius Ujah

South Dakota State University - Department of Economics

Augustine Tarkom

Texas State University

Renee Oyotode - Adebile

University of Wisconsin - Parkside - School of Business and Technology

Abstract

We examine the effects of board nationality diversity on payout policy in the US. We argue that heterogenous boards have robust monitoring to reduce managers' misbehaviors. As such, increasing the proportion of foreigners on the board increases the board's heterogeneity. The findings are that nationally diverse boards encourage more payouts and reduce excess cash available to managers. This result is significant for all the payout measures. The effect is positive and significant when the firm has excess cash holdings. However, in high economic policy uncertainty periods, the nationally diverse board cautionary reduces payout to ensure they have enough resources. In addition, nationally diverse boards reduce payout when there is a female CEO, and sales growth is higher.

Keywords: Board Nationality, Board Diversity, Dividend, Payout Policy, Stock Option, Stock Repurchase

Suggested Citation:

Ujah, Nacasius and Tarkom, Augustine and Oyotode - Adebile, Renee, Board Nationality and Us Payout Policy. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 Posted: 2016
S Byoun , K Chang , Y S Kim
Does Corporate Board Diversity Affect Corporate Payout Policy?
Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 101 Posted: 2016
K S Estélyi , T M Nisar
Diverse boards: Why do firms get foreign nationals on their boards? Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 39 , p. 174 - 192 Posted: 2016
S E-Vahdati , N Zulkifli , Z Zakaria
A Moderated Mediation Model for Board Diversity and Corporate Performance in ASEAN Countries
Sustainability , volume 10 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
371
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies