Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Director Labor Market Learn from Employees’ Social Media Ratings of the CEO?

56 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024 Last revised: 12 Oct 2024

Kevin K. Li

Santa Clara University

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Yong Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 22, 2024

Abstract

Using employee-submitted reviews on Glassdoor.com, we examine whether the director labor market learns from employees’ assessments of CEOs. Employees’ approval ratings of the CEO provide a unique perspective on the CEO as an individual, distinct from evaluations of firm or management team performance. We find that CEOs with higher employee approval ratings subsequently gain more independent directorships, after controlling for firm performance and various firm and CEO characteristics. The effect is not driven by other employee-provided ratings, such as those of business outlook or management team, suggesting that CEO approval ratings likely unveil unique information about CEOs’ personal abilities and skills beyond firm or team performance. Furthermore, the positive relation between CEO approval ratings and directorship gains weakens (strengthens) following quasi-exogenous shocks that decrease the perceived credibility of approval ratings (traditional information sources). This relation also strengthens when outsiders face greater information asymmetry, when firm performance is a noisier signal of CEO quality, or when employee ratings are more informative. Finally, firms appointing CEOs with higher employee ratings as independent directors experience a more positive market reaction to the appointments and a larger improvement in future financial performance, with the effect concentrated in firms where labor is a more critical input. Overall, we provide new evidence on the role of social media postings by rank-and-file employees in informing the external director labor market.

Keywords: Director Labor Market, Social Media, Employee-supplied CEO Ratings

JEL Classification: G30, G34, J24, L86, M12, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kevin K. and Zhang, Ivy and Zhang, Yong, Does the Director Labor Market Learn from Employees’ Social Media Ratings of the CEO? (May 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R Adams , D Ferreir
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
L Bebchuk , M Cremers , U Peyer
The CEO pay slice
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 221 Posted: 2011
G Becker
The Age of Human Capital. Education in the 21st Century Posted: 2002
E Blankespoor , G Miller , H White
The role of dissemination in market liquidity: Evidence from firms' use of Twitter™
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
257,340
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies