Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech and Green Finance in Banking: The Interplay of Geographic Dispersion and Bank Governance

52 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Zhaoyan Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Maggie Fu

University of Macau

Abstract

Both fintech and green finance are central themes in the ongoing international discourse on banking sector development, yet they are generally treated as separate in academic research. This study connects fintech and green finance by exploring the potential of fintech in facilitating banks’ engagement in green finance. We introduce a novel measure for assessing geographic dispersion of bank branches and investigate how the impact of fintech on green finance activities is related to geographic dispersion and its interplay with bank governance. Drawing upon a sample of all listed banks in China over the 2010-2022 period, we find that fintech negatively affect green lending participation of geographically more dispersed banks. However, when accompanied by effective bank governance, even highly dispersed banks can unlock the supporting effect of fintech on green lending. Our results are robust after employing alternative measures for fintech and green finance engagement, a subsample, and an instrumental variable approach. This study represents the pioneering attempt to link geographic dispersion and bank governance with banks’ dynamic capabilities. The findings hold important implications for banks aimed at implementing a green and responsible strategy: to leverage fintech-enabled green finance, banks particularly those with a wider geographical presence should further enhance their corporate governance practices to cultivate stronger dynamic capabilities that facilitate effective deployment of fintech.

Keywords: Green finance, Banking, fintech, Geographic dispersion, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Zhaoyan and Fu, Maggie, Fintech and Green Finance in Banking: The Interplay of Geographic Dispersion and Bank Governance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4838389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4838389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
V Aebi , G Sabato , M Schmid
Risk management, corporate governance, and bank performance in the financial crisis
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 12 , p. 3213 - 3226 Posted: 2012
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression : testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
X An , G Pivo
Green Buildings in Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities: The Effects of LEED and Energy Star Certification on Default Risk and Loan Terms
Real Estate Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 42 Posted: 2018
I Anagnostopoulos
Fintech and regtech: Impact on regulators and banks
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 100 , p. 7 - 25 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
779
RANK
560,264
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies