Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Firm-Specific Exposure to Regulatory Intensity on Earnings Management

56 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Surendranath Rakesh Jory

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Thanh Ngo

East Carolina University

Jurica Susnjara

Texas State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We examine the effect of a firm-level regulatory burden on earnings management practices. Using a novel regulatory dataset from Kalmenovitz et al. (2023) and employing a principal components analysis (PCA) to extract the components of earnings management most likely to harm the firms (Christensen, et al., 2022, 2023), we find that a greater regulatory intensity, measured primarily as the number of active relevant regulations, increases earnings management, whether real or accruals-based. This relationship remains significant under a battery of robustness checks, including using models with propensity matching, entropy balancing, instrument variables and Heckman’s (1979) two-stage regression. We find that the stock market is, however, less punitive towards this regulations-induced earnings management than towards earnings management in general.

Keywords: Regulatory Intensity, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Jory, Surendranath Rakesh and Ngo, Thanh and Susnjara, Jurica, The Effect of Firm-Specific Exposure to Regulatory Intensity on Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4838388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4838388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
P Aghion , A Bergeaud , J Van Reenen
The impact of regulation on innovation
American Economic Review , volume 113 , issue 11 , p. 2894 - 2936 Posted: 2023
W Almaqoushi , R Powell
Audit committee quality indices, reporting quality and firm value
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 48 , issue 1-2 , p. 185 - 229 Posted: 2021
K Andries , M Cools , S Van Uytbergen
To shift or not to shift? Intertemporal income shifting as a response to the risk capital allowance introduction in Belgium
European Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 531 - 559 Posted: 2017
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
427,290
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies