Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hometown Religiosity and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Chairpersons

Managerial Auditing Journal

Posted: 30 May 2024

Emrah Arioglu

Cukurova University

Metin Borak

Çukurova University

Murat Ocak

Trakya University, Uzunköprü School of Applied Sciences, Department of Management Information Systems

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

Purpose
This study aims to investigate whether there is a relationship between the religiosity levels of chairpersons’ hometowns and the financial reporting quality of companies.
Design/methodology/approach
Using a unique hand-collected data set obtained from various sources, the authors use ordinary least squares and logistic regressions to test the hypotheses and further implement various methods to address potential issues such as omitted variables, reverse causality and selection bias problems. In addition, the authors control for the religiosity level of chief executive officers’ (CEOs) hometowns. Finally, the authors divide the sample into two subsamples – companies with strong corporate governance and companies with weak corporate governance – to investigate the effect of chairpersons’ hometown religiosity on financial reporting quality under strong or weak corporate governance.
Findings
The findings demonstrate that companies with chairpersons from religious hometowns produce high-quality financial reports. Additional tests, such as the Heckman selection model and instrument variable regression, confirm the robustness of the main results. Controlling for the religiosity level of the CEO’s hometown yields consistent findings with the main results. Finally, additional results indicate that the religiosity levels of chairpersons’ hometowns play a significant role in enhancing financial reporting quality in companies with weak corporate governance.
Practical implications
Companies should consider appointing board members or chairpersons from more religious hometowns, as the empirical results of this study support the positive effects of chairpersons’ hometown religiosity on financial reporting quality.
Originality/value
To the best of the authors’ knowledge, the current study is among the first to demonstrate the relationship between the religiosity level of the chairpersons’ hometown and the financial reporting quality of companies. The study introduces unique hometown religiosity proxies and controls for various variables related to corporate governance, chairperson attributes, company characteristics, and audit firm characteristics.

Suggested Citation:

Arioglu, Emrah and Borak, Metin and Ocak, Murat, Hometown Religiosity and Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Chairpersons (May 23, 2024). Managerial Auditing Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4839007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies