Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Disclosure Regulation and Firms' Competitive Position

93 Pages Posted: 23 May 2024 Last revised: 9 Jul 2025

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Nico Lehmann

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

Regulators worldwide have in recent years adopted ESG disclosure regulations. A key concern when determining the scope of these regulations is the potential impact on the competitive position of firms within the economy. To investigate such competition effects, we exploit the staggered adoption of ESG disclosure mandates targeted at public firms but not at private firms. Using supply-chain data, we document that after the introduction of ESG disclosure regulation, corporate customers are less likely to contract with public suppliers, but more likely to do so with domestic private suppliers. We show that our findings reflect material shifts in contracting, consistent with ESG disclosure regulation on average imposing a competitive burden on public firms to the benefit of domestic private firms. These competition effects are more pronounced for comprehensive ESG disclosure mandates that use double materiality and require external verification of ESG reports.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate social responsibility (CSR), supply chains, disclosure regulation, competition, public firms, private firms

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K22, K32, L21, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Lehmann, Nico, ESG Disclosure Regulation and Firms' Competitive Position (May 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4839091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4839091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations , volume 80 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
M Bajgar , G Berlingieri , S Calligaris , C Criscuolo , J Timmis
Coverage and representativeness of Orbis data Posted: 2020
A Baker , D Larcker , C Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
RANK
126,283
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies