Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Covid-19 Motivated Changes to Executive Compensation

Journal of Management Accounting Research

44 Pages Posted: 25 May 2024

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Luann J. Lynch

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Xiaoxia Peng

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

We provide new insights into companies’ decisions to cut CEO pay during the COVID-19 pandemic by comparing 482 firms announcing CEO salary cuts to those that do not. We find that salary cuts are more prevalent in firms with poor pre-pandemic performance, lower cash holdings, employee layoffs, and better governance. Shareholders appear to view these cuts favorably in firms with higher CEO pay ratios and those that are the first among their peer firms to make such an announcement. These findings suggest that pay cuts reflect efforts to adjust pay efficiently in response to changes in contracting environments and to lend legitimacy to other difficult decisions firms face, alongside governance characteristics. We also find that CEO salary cuts coincide with well-timed equity grants that appreciate in value more than those in non-cutting firms and with a shift away from earnings-based metrics in performance-based incentive plans.

Keywords: Pay Cut; Executive Compensation; COVID-19

JEL Classification: G34, M12, M21, M52

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Lynch, Luann J. and Peng, Xiaoxia, Covid-19 Motivated Changes to Executive Compensation (May 23, 2024). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4839451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
M Afzali , U Khan , S
Sharing the pain between workers and management: evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic and 9/11 attacks Posted: 2022
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
220,473
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies