Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electronic Voting, Shareholder Activism, and Dividend Payouts

20 Pages Posted: 24 May 2024

Chia-Chen Teng

Chung Yuan Christian University - Department of Finance

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the impact of implementing an electronic voting (e-voting) system on dividend payout decisions in an emerging economy. The findings indicate that publicly-traded firms in Taiwan distribute more dividends following the mandatory adoption of the e-voting scheme. The possible channel of increased dividend payouts is through better firm performances after the application of e-voting. The research provides new insights into how the e-voting mechanism fosters greater shareholder activism, improves corporate performance, and influences dividend distributions.

Keywords: Electronic Voting, Shareholder Activism, dividend payouts

Suggested Citation:

Teng, Chia-Chen, Electronic Voting, Shareholder Activism, and Dividend Payouts. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
S Bhagat , B Bolton
Corporate governance and firm performance
Journal of corporate finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 257 - 273 Posted: 2008
E Boros
Virtual shareholder meetings
Duke L. & Tech. Rev , volume 1 Posted: 2003
C.-W Chen
Corporate Governance and the Salary Gap between Managers and Employees: Evidence from Taiwan Posted: 2021
Review of Securities and Futures Markets , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 29
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
271
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies