Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Value Verification of Non-GAAP Reporting?

49 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Lauren Matkaluk

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: May 24, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether investors value verification of non-GAAP reporting. When firms report non-GAAP measures in SEC filings, Regulation G requires managers reconcile non-GAAP measures to their most comparable GAAP measures. If non-GAAP reconciliations accompany audited financial statements, auditors must review the reconciliations for material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements ("verify"). To hold constant both the decision to report non-GAAP and the information content, we compare firms that report non-GAAP in both their earnings announcement and 10-K to firms that report non-GAAP only in their earnings announcement. We find firms with verified non-GAAP have higher CARs, lower bid-ask spreads, and lower stock volatility on 10-K filing dates. We also find higher non-GAAP earnings quality for those firms. To sharpen identification, we hand collect non-GAAP measures for the S&P 500 firms from 2014 to 2019 and identify which exclusions were audited (i.e., reconcile directly to audited financial statements). As the percentage of verified exclusions increases, S&P 500 firms have higher CARs, lower bid-ask spreads, and lower stock volatility on 10-K filing dates. Collectively, our results suggest investors find verification of non-GAAP reporting useful and will inform regulators considering mandated assurance over non-GAAP measures.

Keywords: non-GAAP reporting, verification, non-GAAP reconciliations, non-GAAP exclusions, credibility Data Availability: All data are publicly available from the sources identified in the text

JEL Classification: G14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Matkaluk, Lauren and Sheneman, Amy, Do Investors Value Verification of Non-GAAP Reporting? (May 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , R D Sommerfeldt
Auditing non-GAAP measures: signaling more than intended
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 577 - 606 Posted: 2022
K L Anderson , T L Yohn
The effect of 10-K restatements on firm value, information asymmetries, and investors' reliance on earnings Posted: 2002
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
B A Badertscher , J Kim , W R Kinney , E Owens
Assurance level choice, CPA fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from U.S. private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
310,156
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies