Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Under Attack:Empirical Evidence from the Eurostoxx600 on Stakeholders’ Perception of Greenwashing

29 Pages Posted: 24 May 2024

Costanza Bosone

University of Pavia - Università degli Studi di Pavia; Institute of Advanced Study (IUSS - Pavia); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Paola Cerchiello

University of Pavia - Department of Economics and Management Science

Yana Kostiuk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The ambiguity surrounding ESG paves the way for greenwashing, a deceptive practice where a company misrepresents the sustainability of its actions. We empirically investigate greenwashing by examining the perceptions of both internal and external stakeholders regarding sustainability. We address a notorious critique in greenwashing research - that the entire voluntary CSR approach inadvertently facilitates the diffusion of greenwashing. We find that the mere presence of CSR Commitess is not necessarily indicative of sustainability commitment from a stakeholder’s perspective. Only when the presence of such committees is accompanied by tangible sustainability initiatives, stakeholders positively evaluate a company dedication to sustainability.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Sustainability, Stakeholders Theory, Corporate Management

Suggested Citation:

Bosone, Costanza and Cerchiello, Paola and Kostiuk, Yana, CSR Under Attack:Empirical Evidence from the Eurostoxx600 on Stakeholders’ Perception of Greenwashing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
P Aggarwal , A Kadyan
Greenwashing: The darker side of csr
Indian Journal of Applied Research , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 61 - 66 Posted: 2014
A Agosto , P Giudici , A Tanda
How to combine esg scores? a proposal based on credit rating prediction Posted: 2023
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M K Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots: Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle
Academy of Management Annals , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 573 Posted: 2015
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , G Jackson
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies, and complementarities. Organization science , volume 19 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
609,870
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies