Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boeing 737 MAX

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Rock Center Submitter

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Arthur & Toni Rembe Rock Center for Corporate Governance

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

In November 2018, a Boeing 737 MAX airplane crashed off the coast of Indonesia, killing all 189 passengers and crew members. Four months later, a second 737 MAX flying from Ethiopia to Nairobi crashed, killing 157 individuals. In this Closer Look, we examine the organizational, cultural, and leadership breakdowns that contributed to the failure of the aircraft. We ask:
• Why did the board not recognize the negative impact that organizational pressure had on the design and certification of the MAX?
• From a competitive standpoint, could Boeing have afforded to cede the market to Airbus for the additional years required to make a more complete redesign?
• What role did the board play in this strategic choice?
• What “red flags” indicated that the company’s development schedule was too aggressive?
• What organizational and communication failures prevented the escalation of these concerns to senior leadership and the board?
• How valid is criticism that the failure of the MAX was precipitated by a cultural shift whereby an engineering culture was replaced by a finance culture?
• How can non-engineering professionals effectively oversee engineering talent in the design and development of complex products?

Keywords: corporate governance, organizational risk, red flags, competitive pressure, design choices, governance failure, board oversight, whistleblowers, FAA, Boeing, 737 MAX, regulatory risk

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian and Submitter, Rock Center and Submitter, Rock Center, Boeing 737 MAX (May 16, 2024). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Dominic Gates
Ethiopia Blames Boeing's 737 MAX Design and Training in Interim Report on Crash
The Seattle Times Posted: 2020-03-09
Hannah Beech , Muktita Suhartono
Between Two Boeing Crashes, Silence and Mistrust
The New York Times Posted: 2019-04-03
David Gelles
Boeing Allots $100 Million In Step to Atone for Crashes
The New York Times Posted: 2019-07-04
David Gelles , Ian Austen
A Week After Ethiopia Crash, Boeing's CEO Speaks: 'Our Hearts Are Heavy
The New York Times Posted: 2019-03-19
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,597
RANK
35,060
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies