Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Most Important Theory in Corporate Law is Useless: Agency Cost Theory Explains Anything and Predicts Nothing

Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2024

62 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Bryce Tingle, KC

University of Calgary - Faculty of Law

Date Written: March 24, 2024

Abstract

Agency cost theory provides the conceptual scheme most often used to understand the governance of corporations and the proper relationship of various corporate actors. It is, by far, the most important theory of the firm in corporate law and finance. Thousands of law review and finance articles take it as an article of faith and use it to explain almost everything that occurs in business corporations. But in practice, the theory functions as a retrospective “just so” story, capable of providing ad hoc explanations of any outcome. Its attempts at predicting behavior over the past forty or so years have largely ended in failure.

This paper looks at the recent empirical literature on almost twenty governance practices (everything from takeovers to say on pay voting) that bear on the major predictions historically drawn from agency cost theory. A large body of empirical evidence calls each of these predictions into question, suggesting that agency cost theory is not actually getting at anything important to corporate law and governance. In other words, it does not tell us anything about how corporations should be regulated or run.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Agency Cost, Corporate Law, Executive Compensation, Independent Director, Institutional Shareholder, Proxy Contest, Shareholder Voting, Shareholder Proposals, Dual Class Shares, Say on pay, Board of Directors, Equity Incentives, Takeovers, Takeover Defences, Fiduciary Duties,

JEL Classification: G20, G30, G34, G35, G38, K22, N20,

Suggested Citation:

Tingle, Bryce, The Most Important Theory in Corporate Law is Useless: Agency Cost Theory Explains Anything and Predicts Nothing (March 24, 2024). Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
351 References
I A
A. Hypothesis 1: Increasing Shareholder Power Over Managers Will Lead to
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,106
RANK
192,754
351 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies