Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Representation: Workforce Gender Diversity, Firm Outcomes, and the Cultural Imperative

40 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

Tuhin Harit

University of Texas at Dallas

Vikram K. Nanda

University of Texas at Dallas - School of Management - Department of Finance & Managerial Economics

Sunil Parupati

University of Texas at Dallas

Kirti Sinha

Naveen Jindal School of Management, UT Dallas

Date Written: November 26, 2023

Abstract

We examine how gender diversity in the workforce influences firm outcomes, emphasizing the moderating role of organizational culture. Using an instrumental variable—state childcare funding in Democratic-leaning states—and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission disclosure-based workforce data, we find that diversity increases firms’ research and development (R&D) investment, innovation quality, and overall firm value. These effects appear even in firms with low board diversity. We identify two mechanisms: increased productivity and reduced employee violations. Additionally, textual analyses and the MeToo movement as a cultural shock show that the positive impact of diversity is strongest in firms with supportive cultures. Our findings highlight that workforce diversity contributes to firm success beyond board representation, but its full benefits depend on an inclusive organizational environment.

Keywords: workforce gender diversity, CCDF, Disclosure, Organizationtal Culture, MeToo, Innovation

JEL Classification: M4, M14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Harit, Tuhin and Nanda, Vikram K. and Parupati, Sunil and Sinha, Kirti, Beyond Representation: Workforce Gender Diversity, Firm Outcomes, and the Cultural Imperative (November 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4841977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4841977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
C Arena , A Cirillo , D Mussolino , I Pulcinelli , S Saggese , F Sarto
Women on board: Evidence from a masculine industry
Corporate Governance (Bingley) , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 356 Posted: 2015
D G Arnold , L H Amato , J L Troyer , O J Stewart
Innovation and misconduct in the pharmaceutical industry
Journal of Business Research , volume 144 , p. 1052 - 1063 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
357,435
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies