Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is (institutional) shareholder activism new? Evidence from UK shareholder coalitions in the pre-Cadbury era

40 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Luc Renneboog

Tilburg University - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 25, 2024

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: Does recent institutional shareholder activism have a precedent in the form of (ad hoc) shareholder coalitions which force manager to leave poorly performing companies?

Research Findings/Insights: To answer the above question, we investigate whether or not shareholder voting coalitions discipline managers in the pre-Cadbury era. We find that the voting power held (Shapley values) by financial institutions (mainly, the insurance companies) are positively related to executive director turnover. Coalitions of industrial and commercial companies with strong relative voting power penalise poorly performing managers. In contrast, coalitions of executive directors are able to resist board restructuring. Finally, we find that high leverage facilitates the substitution of executive directors, especially if the company needs to be refinanced.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: We use Shapley values to capture the relative voting power of shareholder coalitions. We find that the use of such power indices (based on oceanic games) yield much stronger results that the measures traditionally used in corporate governance research. This methodology enables us to draw clear conclusions on the existence of voting coalitions.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: This paper shows that voting coalition of shareholders can be instrumental to bring about change in poorly performing companies.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Ownership and Control, Shareholder Coalitions, Shapley Values, Voting Power

Suggested Citation:

Renneboog, Luc, Is (institutional) shareholder activism new? Evidence from UK shareholder coalitions in the pre-Cadbury era (May 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4841433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4841433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specifications for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an applications to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
S Banerjee , B Leleux , T Vermaelen
Large shareholdings and corporate control: an analysis of stake purchases by French holding companies
European Financial Management , volume 3 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
RANK
914,805
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies