Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors' Site Visits and Corporate Climate Risk Management

16 Pages Posted: 27 May 2024

Jiahui Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chao Wang

University of Macau

Ling Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Maggie Fu

University of Macau

Abstract

Employing a manually collected novel dataset that includes all climate-related litigation cases against listed firms in China from 2014 – 2021, we investigate the impact of institutional investors' site visits on corporate climate risk management. We find that institutional site visits are significantly and negatively related to firms’ climate misconduct. Additionally, such relationship is especially evident among firms that operate in smart city pilots, are situated in regions with undeveloped market intermediaries and legal systems, and those without government environmental subsidies. Meanwhile, we show that such relationship is more pronounced in firms with short-sighted managers and low level of internal control.

Keywords: Climate risk management, Institutional investors, Site visits

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Jiahui and Wang, Chao and Wu, Ling and Fu, Maggie, Institutional Investors' Site Visits and Corporate Climate Risk Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4843707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4843707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R Aggarwal , M Hu , J Yang
Fraud, market reaction, and the role of institutional investors in Chinese listed firms
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 92 - 109 Posted: 2015
S F Cahan , C Chen , L Chen
Social norms and CSR performance
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 145 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 508 Posted: 2017
J Cao , H Wang , S Zhou
Soft activism and corporate dividend policy: Evidence from institutional investors site visits
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 75 Posted: 2022
J Chen , D Cumming , W Hou , E Lee
Does the external monitoring effect of financial analysts deter corporate fraud in China
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 742 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies