Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Government Corporate Governance Policies on the Capital Structure of Listed Companies

57 Pages Posted: 27 May 2024

Chih-Hsing Hung

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Chu-Yen Lee

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cheng-Chien Lee

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to delve into the impact of government corporate governance policy implementation on corporate financial leverage, and to analyze whether the educational and professional backgrounds of board members influence their decisions regarding financial leverage. This study will encompass the entire timeline from the Financial Supervisory Commission of Taiwan's release of the Enhanced Corporate Governance 1.0 Blueprint in 2013 to the Corporate Governance 3.0 Sustainable Development Blueprint in 2022 for empirical research. The empirical results indicate that the proportion of independent directors has a significant positive correlation with both the company's book leverage ratio and market leverage ratio. On the other hand, the number of audit committee members shows a significant negative correlation with both ratios. However, the average hours of continuing education for directors and supervisors do not demonstrate significant correlations with either ratio. Further analysis reveals that the educational and professional backgrounds of board members do influence their decision-making. Independent directors with doctoral degrees tend to prioritize the long-term value maximization of the company over short-term profits. Therefore, they may believe that lower financial leverage helps reduce the company's financial risk.          Through analysis across different timeframes, it is observed that the impact of government corporate governance policies on capital structure is time-dependent. As new policies are continuously introduced, the coefficients from different timeframes become more significant. The robustness analysis also confirms the significant impact. This research contributes to a deeper understanding of the effectiveness of government corporate governance policy implementation and provides important insights for both practitioners and academics regarding how companies adapt to changes in corporate governance.

Keywords: government corporate governance policy, capital structure, board education level, independent directors, audit committee.

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Chih-Hsing and Lee, Chu-Yen and Lee, Cheng-Chien, The Impact of Government Corporate Governance Policies on the Capital Structure of Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4844176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4844176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Y A Al-Matari
Do the characteristics of the board chairman have an effect on corporate performance? Empirical evidence from Saudi Arabia
Heliyon , volume 8 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
P Alves , E B Couto , P M Francisco
Board of directors' composition and capital structure
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 35 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military ceos , volume 117 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
A Berle , G Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies