Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Basel III Corporate Governance Standards on the Financial Performance of Commercial Banks in Kenya

20 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024

Paul Muiruri

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

The study aimed to assess the Impact of Basel III Corporate Governance Standards on the Financial Performance of Commercial Banks in Kenya. Both primary and secondary data were collected and analyzed. Primary data collection targeted 172 key bank officials randomly sampled, using a questionnaire. Secondary data were obtained from the most recently published annual financial statements and bank supervision records at the Central Bank of Kenya, spanning from 2009 to 2013. The data underwent cleaning, coding, and statistical analysis using SPSS. Descriptive and inferential statistics, including measures of central tendency, dispersion, and multi-regression analysis, were employed.
The study revealed a continuous growth in CAMEL rating across all key ratios throughout the review years. This sustained growth could be attributed to the effects of CBK regulatory requirements, particularly Basel III Corporate Governance Standards (F=1.433; P value=0.77 with ROE and F=0.94; P value=0.442 with ROA), indicating their significant influence on bank performance. Furthermore, there was a strong and positive correlation between the effects of Basel III Corporate Governance Standards and financial performance (R=0.794 with ROE and ROA), underscoring their importance.
Overall, the findings indicated that Basel III Corporate Governance Standards positively contributed to the financial performance of commercial banks in Kenya. Notably, there was considerable variation in the financial performance of commercial banks due to changes in Basel III Corporate Governance Standards, highlighting their significant effects.
In conclusion, Basel III Corporate Governance Standards were found to influence the profitability of commercial banks in Kenya. The study recommends that bank management leverage volatile earnings, and shareholders play an important role in ensuring the implementation of good corporate governance practices by bank management

Keywords: Basel III, Corporate Governance, Standards ,Financial Performance Commercial Banks

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Muiruri, Paul Munene, The Impact of Basel III Corporate Governance Standards on the Financial Performance of Commercial Banks in Kenya (May 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4844995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4844995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
W H Greene
The econometric approach to efficiency analysis. The measurement of productive efficiency and productivity growth , volume 1 , p. 92 - 250 Posted: 2008
S Kalemli-Ozcan , E Papaioannou , J L Peydro
Financial regulation, financial globalization, and the synchronization of economic activity
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 1179 - 1228 Posted: 2013
R M Kiruri
The effects of ownership structure on bank profitability in Kenya
European Journal of Management Sciences and Economics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 116 - 127 Posted: 2013
B H Mcdonnell
Financial Regulation Reform and Too Big to Fail
Am. U. Bus. L. Rev , volume 1 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
596,846
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies