Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptual Problems of Beneficial Ownership in Respect of Agents and Nominees

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; 7 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2wqw79n

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Saurabh Jain

Independent

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: November 13, 2018

Abstract

The Conduit Companies Report and certain courts have considered that the presence of dominion automatically indicates that an interposed company is not a conduit. This article argues that they have been misled by the official commentary on articles 10, 11 and 12 of the OECD Model as it stood in 1977.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model Commentaries, beneficial ownership, conduit company, agent, passive income, tax treaty, case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Saurabh and Prebble KC, John, Conceptual Problems of Beneficial Ownership in Respect of Agents and Nominees (November 13, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; 7 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2wqw79n, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845449
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies