Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The UK General Anti-Avoidance Rule : Transplants and Lessons

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 6/7 (special issue) ; p. 332-338; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ezp67n

Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Judith Freedman

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: June 25, 2019

Abstract

The UK General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) has been criticized both for being too narrow and too wide. This article examines the origins of the UK GAAR, its wording and evolution, and the use of concepts and phrases transplanted from the United Kingdom and used in the European Union's ATAD and BEPS Action 6.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GAAR, BEPS Project (OECD), ATAD, principal purpose test, MLI

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Freedman, Judith, The UK General Anti-Avoidance Rule : Transplants and Lessons (June 25, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 6/7 (special issue) ; p. 332-338; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ezp67n, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845612
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies