Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mechanism Design with Auditing and Avoidance: Emission Reporting Story

21 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024

Petteri Palonen

University of Helsinki - Helsinki Graduate School of Economics

Teemu Pekkarinen

University of Bonn - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

We consider a simple principal-agent model where the agent is a firm and the principal is an environmental authority. The principal wants to know the level of the agent’s emissions so that it can then assign an appropriate emission tax to the firm. We assume that the agent has only two types, that is, the firm’s emission levels can either be high or low. It is mandatory for the firm to report its emission levels, and furthermore, the environmental authority can investigate whether the firm’s report was in fact truthful. If the firm is caught for misreporting, then it is punished by an exogenous fine. We discuss how the optimal audit policy changes when the firm can undermine the environmental authority’s audit efforts by engaging in avoidance activities. We find that avoidance does not affect the optimal audit policy if the price of auditing is either extremely expensive or exceptionally affordable. However, if the price of auditing is moderate, and moreover, avoidance is cheap and efficient, then it is optimal for the principal to give the agent avoidance rent.

Keywords: Mechanism Design, Verification, Enforcement, Auditing, Avoidance, Fines, Emission Reporting Compliance

JEL Classification: D82, D86, L51

Suggested Citation:

Palonen, Petteri and Pekkarinen, Teemu, Mechanism Design with Auditing and Avoidance: Emission Reporting Story (May 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4845646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
The Economic Dimensions of Crime , p. 13 - 68 Posted: 1968
D W Diamond
Financial intermediation and delegated monitoring
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 393 - 414 Posted: 1984
D Gale , M Hellwig
Incentive-compatible debt contracts: The one-period problem
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 647 - 663 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies