Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Arm's-Length-Principle-Based Authorised OECD Approach to the Attribution of Profits to a Permanent Establishment Losing its Authority?

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 12 ; p. 656-661; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/123r1sp

Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Rasmi Ranjan Das

Central Board of Direct Taxes; UN Tax Committee

Date Written: November 11, 2019

Abstract

From the latest publicly available documents issued by the Inclusive Framework (IF), the author, who is a member of the Steering Group of the IF, argues that the arm's-length-principle-based authorised OECD approach is fast losing its authority as a principle for profit allocation to permanent establishments.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: arm's length principle, allocation of profits, PE, Inclusive Framework (OECD), AOA, OECD Model, BEPS Project (OECD), digital economy, Unified Approach (OECD)

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Das, Rasmi Ranjan, Is the Arm's-Length-Principle-Based Authorised OECD Approach to the Attribution of Profits to a Permanent Establishment Losing its Authority? (November 11, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 12 ; p. 656-661; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/123r1sp, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845535
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies