Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments and Challenges Regarding Exit Taxes in the Context of Tax Treaties: Article 13 of the OECD Model and Change of Residence

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 526-542; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3gsax4x

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Karen Moser

Independent

Date Written: October 2, 2019

Abstract

In this article, the author considers whether article 13(5) of the OECD Model applies to exit taxes and whether it precludes the application of exit taxes. The author also examines to what extent tax treaties can mitigate the risk of double taxation with regard to exit taxes.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: exit tax, tax treaty, allocation of taxing rights, capital gains, OECD Model, residence, anti-avoidance, double taxation relief

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Moser, Karen, Recent Developments and Challenges Regarding Exit Taxes in the Context of Tax Treaties: Article 13 of the OECD Model and Change of Residence (October 2, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 526-542; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3gsax4x, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845467
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies