Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar 1 of the Inclusive Framework's Work Programme: The Effect on the Taxation of the Digital Economy and Reallocation of Taxing Rights

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 504-513; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3w8whew

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Stefan Greil

Independent

Lars Wargowske

Independent

Date Written: September 25, 2019

Abstract

This article considers the challenges of the digital economy and the "Programme of Work" under the Inclusive Framework in respect of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative. It focuses on the reallocation of taxing rights ("Pillar 1") and the three methods with regard to the new nexus.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), digital economy, allocation of taxing rights, BEPS Project (OECD), nexus

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Greil, Stefan and Wargowske, Lars, Pillar 1 of the Inclusive Framework's Work Programme: The Effect on the Taxation of the Digital Economy and Reallocation of Taxing Rights (September 25, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 504-513; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3w8whew, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845462
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies