Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exchange of Information on Request: Whenever, Wherever? Shakira's (and Berlioz's) Right to Judicial Review of the Foreseeable Relevance Standard

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 2 ; p. 90-104; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/34za7fw

Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Bob Michel

Independent

Date Written: January 8, 2019

Abstract

The author analyses the negative impact of the Global Forum peer review of Luxembourg on taxpayers' right of judicial review of the foreseeable relevance of incoming requests for information. Recent case law at the European and national level is analysed, leading to the conclusion that such review is compulsory in EU Member States, which could affect the future direction of the Global Forum in the matter of taxpayer rights regarding the exchange of information on request.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: exchange of information, taxpayers' rights, case law, ECJ case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Michel, Bob, Exchange of Information on Request: Whenever, Wherever? Shakira's (and Berlioz's) Right to Judicial Review of the Foreseeable Relevance Standard (January 8, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 2 ; p. 90-104; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/34za7fw, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845558
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies