Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Organization Capital: Evidence from Antitakeover Laws

54 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

Gilna Samuel

University of Portland

Bill B. Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the market for corporate control on firm-level organization capital. We use the enactment of antitakeover laws as an exogenous decrease in the disciplinary effect of the market for corporate control. Our results show that organization capital decreases after the enactment of antitakeover laws. These results are verified through various endogeneity and robustness tests. We find that the impact on organization capital is more pronounced compared to other forms of intangible capital. Also, stronger corporate governance and competition mitigate the decrease in organization capital. We show that the decline in organization capital contributed to the decline in firm value after the enactment of antitakeover laws. Moreover, we find that reductions in the inflow of inventors, lower total factor productivity and higher labor mobility are possible mechanisms through which antitakeover laws impact organization capital.

Keywords: Organization capital, antitakeover laws, market for corporate control, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Samuel, Gilna and Francis, Bill B. and Wu, Qiang, Impact of Corporate Governance on Organization Capital: Evidence from Antitakeover Laws. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4845470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: Evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
J Atanassov
Do hostile takeovers stifle innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legislation and corporate patenting
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
A Atkeson , P J Kehoe
Measuring organization capital Posted: 2002
J Bai , D Fairhurst , M Serfling
Employment protection, investment, and firm growth
Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 644 - 688 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
RANK
914,805
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies