Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration of Taxes on Inheritances, Estates and Gifts into the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital: The Curious Case of Special Provisions - Part 2

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 11 ; p. 598-608; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1tx87db

Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Jan Karol Szczepański

Independent

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

In Part 2 of this article, the author continues his examination of the interaction between the special provisions in the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital, and conceptual foundations of taxes on inheritances, estates and gifts in light of the OECD Estate, Inheritance and Gift Model Convention.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: inheritance tax, gift tax, exchange of information, collection of tax, OECD Model, inheritance tax treaty, MAP, non-discrimination

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Szczepański, Jan Karol, Integration of Taxes on Inheritances, Estates and Gifts into the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital: The Curious Case of Special Provisions - Part 2 (September 30, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 11 ; p. 598-608; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1tx87db, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845509
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies