Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deductibility: Implementation of Action 4 of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project and the Future of Transfer Pricing of Intra-Group Finance

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 6/7 (special issue) ; p. 325-331; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/17eyg9s

Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Chloe Burnett

Independent

Date Written: June 3, 2019

Abstract

This article considers multinational enterprises' capacity to deduct interest expenses in light of the implementation of Action 4 of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project and the OECD's current work on transfer pricing of financial transactions. It concludes that there has been a "step change" in moving away from a traditional "arm's length" approach, and makes predictions about the tax planning responses to existing and upcoming interest limitation rules, and possible counter-responses.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: interest deduction, BEPS Project (OECD), transfer pricing, intra-group financing, arm's length principle

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Burnett, Chloe, Interest Deductibility: Implementation of Action 4 of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project and the Future of Transfer Pricing of Intra-Group Finance (June 3, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 6/7 (special issue) ; p. 325-331; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/17eyg9s, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845608
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
72
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies