Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Overlap between Dispute Settlement Mechanisms in World Trade Organization Agreements and Tax Treaties

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 50-56; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2d64m1x

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Alireza Salehifar

Independent

Date Written: November 15, 2018

Abstract

The rapid expansion of the membership of the World Trade Organization (WTO) poses a significant challenge to the operation of tax treaties. This article examines the possible clash of jurisdiction and the potential conflict between the dispute resolution mechanisms provided for by the WTO and in tax treaties.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: dispute resolution, tax treaty, GATS

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Salehifar, Alireza, The Overlap between Dispute Settlement Mechanisms in World Trade Organization Agreements and Tax Treaties (November 15, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 50-56; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2d64m1x, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845457
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies