Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deduction Limitation for Share Transaction Costs in the Netherlands

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; 5 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2qwrk0m

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Yeung Shie Yee Au

Independent

Lex Bekkers

Independent

Date Written: November 21, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the authors address the tax deductibility under Dutch tax law of certain transaction costs relating to the acquisition or divestment of participations qualifying for the Dutch participation exemption. Initially, the authors briefly describe the Dutch tax framework, under which the tax deductibility of transaction costs may be limited. Following this, the authors consider the significant aspects of the tax deductibility of transaction costs in further detail, based on the relevant literature, the jurisprudence of Dutch courts and the policy of the Dutch tax authorities as published in documentation on 26 April 2016.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: expenses, deductions, participation exemption, case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shie Yee Au, Yeung and Bekkers, Lex, The Deduction Limitation for Share Transaction Costs in the Netherlands (November 21, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 1 ; 5 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2qwrk0m, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845448
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
81
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies