Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Activist Investors Stakes and Market Movements

80 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2024

Patricia Paiva Gomes Cruz (Bilezikjian)

Independent

Date Written: March 7, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates two questions related to activist blockholders: i) What drives their purchase decisions? ii) Is a higher share of activist holdings value increasing? We employ information disclosed in regulatory filings (SEC Schedule 13D) to address these inquiries as follows. The period between the event date (the day the investor reaches the regulatory ownership threshold, also known as trigger date) and the day of its public disclosure (filing date) is referred to as “pre-disclosure accumulation period” or “grace period”. We find that activist investors do indeed use the grace period to adjust their stakes, taking advantage of market-wide price swings. When the market experiences an upward deviation (last quintile) from its trend within the 10 days following the trigger date, initial stakes in dollars are 19% lower. Though activist investors use the pre-disclosure accumulation period strategically, we do not find evidence that this (plausibly exogenous) variation in ownership has an impact on the overall valuation of the firm, at least within the scope of our dataset and specification.

Keywords: Large shareholders, blockholders, activist investors, activism, corporate governance, corporate finance, voice

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Paiva Gomes Cruz (Bilezikjian), Patricia, Activist Investors Stakes and Market Movements (March 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4846178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Albuquerque , V Fos , E Schroth
Value Creation in Shareholder Activism
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , p. 153 - 178 Posted: 2022
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2008
J Barry , A Brav , W Jiang
Hedge Fund Activism Updated Tables and Figures Posted: 2020
L A Bebchuk , A Brav , R J Jackson , W Jiang
Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors: Evidence and Policy , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
735,901
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies