Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Financial Support Affect ESG Performance? Evidence from Listed Manufacturing Companies in China

15 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Sisi Zhou

Shandong University

Xinyuan Cao

Columbia University

Tingting Cao

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

The research aims to explore the impact of digital finance on the ESG performance and whether digital and traditional finance play a complementary or substitute role in promoting the ESG performance. The research found that digital finance can alleviate financing constraints and promote technological innovation, thereby improving ESG performance. Furthermore, digital finance and traditional finance have a direct impact on the ESG performance and further enhance their influence through complementary effects.  The study's conclusion provides  a valuable reference for finance to support manufacturing enterprises' development effectively.

Keywords: Digital Finance, Traditional Finance, Manufacturing enterprises, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Sisi and Cao, Xinyuan and Cao, Tingting, How Does Financial Support Affect ESG Performance? Evidence from Listed Manufacturing Companies in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4846761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
S Cao , D Leung
Credit constraints and productivity of SMEs: Evidence from Canada[J]. Economic Modelling Posted: 2020
C Y Chan , D W Chou , H C Lo
Do financial constraints matter when firms engage in CSR
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance Posted: 2017
L Chen
Digital inclusive finance, corporate governance and corporate mergers and acquisitions
Friends of Accounting
C Du , Y Zhang
Regional innovation effect of digital finance in the context of "new infrastructure
Science of Finance and Economics , issue 5
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies