Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Board Meetings Matter in the Insurance Industry?

51 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

Mike Adams

University of Bath - School of Management

Zafeira Kastrinaki

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines the link between formally scheduled board meetings and profitability and solvency in the United Kingdom's (UK) property-casualty insurance industry. A dynamic panel data design using 83 UK insurers writing property-casualty insurance for the period 2004/5 to 2013/4 is employed. The study finds that increasing the number of board meetings scheduled each year enhances overall rates of attendance. However, outside directors with financial experience have relatively better attendance rates than their counterparts with less technical expertise. The study also finds that overall board meeting attendance, and directorate turn-out at strategy and remuneration meetings, improve profitability, but not solvency. In addition, board meeting attendance by outside directors falls when prior period profitability is sound suggesting a 'complacency-effect' among non-executives. The insignificance of directorate attendance on solvency also hints at a 'dependency-effect', whereby boards become reliant on professional managers (actuarial technocrats) in order to optimize financial strength and condition. Our results could have implications for insurers and regulators in deciding on the suitability of candidates applying for board-level positions.

Keywords: Board meetings, Profitability, Solvency, Insurance, UK.

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Mike and Kastrinaki, Zafeira, Do Board Meetings Matter in the Insurance Industry?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4846067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Abdul Kader , H Adams , M Mouratidis , K
Testing for trade-offs in the reinsurance decision of U.K. life insurance firms
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 25 , p. 491 - 522 Posted: 2010
M Adams , W Jiang
Do outside directors influence the financial performance of risk-trading firms? Evidence from the United Kingdom (UK) insurance industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 64 , p. 36 - 51 Posted: 2016
M Adams , W Jiang
Do financial experts on the board matter? An empirical test from the United Kingdom's non-life insurance industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 35 , p. 168 - 195 Posted: 2020
M Adams , V Upreti , J Chen
Product-market strategy and underwriting performance in the United Kingdom's property-casualty insurance market
European Journal of Finance , volume 25 , p. 1012 - 1031 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
449
RANK
812,529
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies