Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Premium for Sustainable Development Goals? The Case of Activist Investors

44 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2024

Patricia Paiva Gomes Cruz (Bilezikjian)

Independent

Date Written: March 7, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between company valuations after being targeted by blockholder activists when their stated investment objectives exhibit some degree of similarity to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as developped by the UN. Our empirical approach employs Natural Language Processing (NLP) to establish similarity scores from the textual content of activist regulatory filings (investment objectives) and the SDGs. We find a robust positive relationship that is both economically and statistically significant. Switching from no similarity to the average similarity increases the abnormal returns around the filing date of an activist investor by approximately 2%, about one fifth of the average abnormal return. These findings imply that activist investors may play a crucial rule in the transition towards a more sustainable economy.

Keywords: Large shareholders, blockholders, activist investors, activism, corporate governance, sustainable finance, SDGs, textual analysis, NLP

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Paiva Gomes Cruz (Bilezikjian), Patricia, Is There a Premium for Sustainable Development Goals? The Case of Activist Investors (March 7, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4846196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
P Akey , I Appel
Environmental Externalities of Activism Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , V Fos , E Schroth
Value Creation in Shareholder Activism
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 145 , p. 153 - 178 Posted: 2022
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2008
D Ardia , K Bluteau , K Boudt , K Inghelbrecht
Climate Change Concerns and the Performance of Green Versus Brown Stocks Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies