Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Politicians Affect Firm Outcomes? Evidence from Connections to the German Federal Parliament

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17031

67 Pages Posted: 31 May 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

André Diegmann

Halle Institute for Economic Research; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Laura Pohlan

Institute for Employment Research (IAB)

Andrea Weber

Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO); Vienna University of Economics and Business; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We study how connections to German federal parliamentarians affect firm dynamics by constructing a novel dataset to measure connections between politicians and the universe of firms. To identify the causal effect of access to political power, we exploit (i) new appointments to the company leadership team and (ii) discontinuities around the marginal seat of party election lists. Our results reveal that connections lead to reductions in firm exits, gradual increases in employment growth without improvements in productivity. The economic effects are mediated by better credit ratings while access to subsidies or procurement contracts are documented to be of lower importance.

Keywords: identification, firm performance, politicians, political connections

JEL Classification: O43, L25, D72

Suggested Citation:

Diegmann, André and Diegmann, André and Pohlan, Laura and Weber, Andrea Michaela and Weber, Andrea Michaela, Do Politicians Affect Firm Outcomes? Evidence from Connections to the German Federal Parliament. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17031, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4849690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Acemoglu , T A Hassan , A Tahoun
The power of the street: Evidence from Egypt's Arab Spring
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role?
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
U Akcigit , S Baslandze , F Lotti
Connecting to power: political connections, innovation, and firm dynamics , volume 91 , p. 529 - 564 Posted: 2023
P Akey
Valuing Changes in Political Networks: Evidence from Campaign Contributions to Close Congressional Elections
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
475,518
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies