Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Function and Investment Decisions

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-03

61 Pages Posted: 31 May 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Christian Renelt

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 29, 2024

Abstract

Tax integration in firms’ investment decisions is typically considered a ‘black box’. Using novel survey data from 197 large and medium-sized firms, I examine two dimensions of tax integration: (a) the timing at which a tax function enters the decision-making process (temporal tax integration); and (b) the organizational structures which embed a tax function in the decision-making process (organizational tax integration). I find that temporal tax integration on average occurs at later stages of the decision-making process compared to the desired timing of tax integration. This desire towards earlier tax integration is consistent with the notion of a tax function enhancing a firm’s internal information environment prior to the final decision. The index for organizational tax integration, on the other hand, is rather low on average, indicating potential room for improving organizational tax structures. I find evidence that firms with stronger organizational tax integration are associated with earlier tax integration and a smaller difference between the status quo and desired timing of tax integration. In further analyses, I distinguish between tax planning and tax compliant firms, and find earlier tax integration for tax planning firms, indicating that tax planning requires timely tax integration. Finally, I provide evidence that earlier temporal tax integration is associated with a higher degree of satisfaction with the decision-making process. Overall, this study contributes to opening the ‘black box’ of tax integration in firms’ investment decisions.

Keywords: tax function, tax integration, investment decisions, decision-making, tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Renelt, Christian, Tax Function and Investment Decisions (May 29, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Bmf
Mission Statement zum Netzwerk empirische Steuerforschung Posted: 2023
X Chen , Q Cheng , T Chow , Y Liu
Corporate In-house Tax Departments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 443 - 482 Posted: 2021
T Chirwa , N Odhiambo
Macroeconomic determinants of economic growth: A Review of International Literature
South East European Journal of Economics and Business , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 47 Posted: 2016
S Dyreng , E Maydew
Virtual Issue on Tax Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
706
RANK
439,204
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies