Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharp Tools Make Good Work: The Role of ESG Scores on Corporate Risk-Taking

13 Pages Posted: 31 May 2024

Yuemin Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

zhaoyong chen

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This study empirically studies the role of ESG on corporate risk-taking and its underlying mechanism. The study found that ESG scores profoundly lower corporate risk-taking, and the findings remain consistent even after robustness tests. The underlying mechanism indicates that ESG scores can significantly reduce corporate risk-taking by easing financing constraints and increasing external attention.Heterogeneity analysis indicates that the inhibitory influence of ESG scores on corporate risk-taking is more consequential in resource-based cities, non-heavy pollution industries, and companies with female executives.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate risk-taking, Financing constraints, External attention

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yuemin and chen, zhaoyong, Sharp Tools Make Good Work: The Role of ESG Scores on Corporate Risk-Taking. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
B K Adhikari
Female executives and corporate cash holdings
Applied Economics Letters , volume 25 , issue 13 , p. 958 - 963 Posted: 2018
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider Share-Pledging and Equity Risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Individual and corporate social responsibility
Economica , volume 77 , issue 305 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
J C H Chan , R Welford
Assessing corporate environmental risk in China: an evaluation of reporting activities of Hong Kong listed enterprises
Corporate social responsibility and environmental management , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 104 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies