Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Economic Conditions

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

An-Ping Lin

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 01, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether economic conditions are associated with firms' earnings management decisions as well as the strength of incentives to manage earnings. We expect economic conditions affect both the benefits and costs of engaging in earnings management, and thus, potentially explain time-series variation in earnings management. We find incomeincreasing earnings management activities are negatively associated with real GDP growth, especially during periods when economic conditions are worsening (i.e., declining economic growth rates). Our counter-cyclical earnings management results are robust to using multiple measures of earnings management and economic conditions. In addition, we find earnings management incentives related to earnings smoothing, equity financing, market reactions to earnings surprises, and CEO turnover vary with economic conditions in ways that are consistent with how earnings management varies with economic conditions. Overall, firms' earnings management activities vary counter-cyclically with economic growth, as do their internal and external incentives to manage earnings.

Keywords: earnings management, economic conditions, earnings response coefficients, CEO turnover risk, business cycle, equity issuance

Suggested Citation:

Hillegeist, Stephen A. and Lin, An-Ping, Earnings Management and Economic Conditions (November 01, 2019). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1-3 Posted: 1999
A Ali , U G Gurun
Investor Sentiment, Accruals Anomaly, and Accruals Management
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 415 - 431 Posted: 2009
D Amiram , W R Landsman , E L Owens , S R Stubben
How are analysts' forecasts affected by high uncertainty?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 45 , issue 3-4 , p. 295 - 318 Posted: 2018
S Arif , N Marshall , T L Yohn
Understanding the relation between accruals and volatility: A real options-based investment approach
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 86 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
473
RANK
653,768
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies