Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Successive Performance matter for Tone Management? Evidence from China

Forthcoming, REFC - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

49 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Sibei Yan

Kyung Hee University

Iny Hwang

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Hyung Rok Jung

Kyung Hee University

Tyler Taejin Jung

Hanyang University - School of Business

Date Written: June 03, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates whether managers deliberately adjust the tone of their non-financial disclosure depending on their firm performance over multiple periods. Using 13,995 firm-year MD&As (Management Discussion and Analysis) in annual reports of companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges from 2009 to 2019, we first observe a bias towards good news disclosure by managers in their MD&A section. More importantly, we find that this asymmetric tone management is more pronounced when a firm's performance declines consecutively. In cross-sectional tests, we provide evidence that the relationship between asymmetric tone management and successive performance is weaker for firms with state ownership and those with a high marketability index. We suggest that in non-U.S. markets, such as China, asymmetric tone management is more likely to reflect the opportunistic behavior of managers. Overall, our study sheds new light on tone management in emerging markets and highlights the importance of a multi-period relation in understanding managers' tone management behavior.

Keywords: management discussion and analysis (MD&A), tone management, multi-period relation JEL Classifications: G10, M40, non-U.S. setting, reputation management

Suggested Citation:

Yan, Sibei and Hwang, Iny and Jung, Hyung Rok and Jung, Tyler Taejin, Do Successive Performance matter for Tone Management? Evidence from China (June 03, 2024). Forthcoming, REFC - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
H Abou-El-Sood , D El-Sayed
Abnormal disclosure tone, earnings management and earnings quality
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 402 - 433 Posted: 2022
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
X Ao
Research on the disclosure of listed companies and investors' interpretation in text information based on crawler and text mining technology
Southwestern University of Finance and Economics Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
RANK
880,636
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies