Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Carbon Pricing on Firm Performance: Worldwide Evidence

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper 6/2024

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2024

43 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024 Last revised: 11 Nov 2024

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research

(HKIMR)

Date Written: June 1, 2024

Abstract

This working paper is written by Tinghua Duan (IESEG School of Management), Frank Weikai Li (Singapore Management University), and Hong Zhang (Singapore Management University).



Economists have long argued that carbon pricing is the most flexible and cost-effective method to mitigate climate change. A major block to pricing carbon pollution, however, is concerns about economic costs. In this paper, we examine the impacts of carbon pricing policies on the operating performance and market value of publicly listed firms around the world. We conduct the most comprehensive study to date of the impacts of carbon pricing on firm performance, using a sample of 104,100 firm-year observations covering 16,222 unique firms across 52 countries.

Using the staggered enactment of carbon pricing initiatives across jurisdictions and a triple difference approach, we find a significant reduction in the profitability and market value of carbon-intensive firms relative to low-emission firms after the enactment of carbon pricing policies. Further analyses show that the reduction in firm profits is driven by both a decrease in sales growth and an increase in operating costs. The reduction in firm value is driven by both an increase in the cost of capital and a decrease in expected future cash flows. Relative to low-emission firms, carbon-intensive firms also cut investments and lay off employees more, and they save more out of their cash flows, indicating tightened financial constraints. Exploiting cross-country heterogeneity, we find a stronger effect of carbon pricing on the profits of firms headquartered in North America and in countries that rely more on fossil fuel for energy.

Overall, our findings uncover the large distributional impacts of carbon pricing policies on individual firms and complements prior studies focusing on macroeconomic impacts. The large distributional impacts of carbon pricing policies suggest that targeted fiscal policies could be an effective way not only to reduce the economic costs of carbon pricing on the most affected firms and households but also to gain public support.

Keywords: Climate change,carbon pricing,carbon tax,emission trading systems,carbon premium,distributional effects

JEL Classification: G15,G32,E62,H23

Suggested Citation:

Institute for Monetary and Financial Research, Hong Kong, The Effect of Carbon Pricing on Firm Performance: Worldwide Evidence (June 1, 2024). Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper 6/2024, Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
J J Andersson
Carbon taxes and CO2 emissions: Sweden as a case study
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S Rajgopal
Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns?
Review of Finance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 106 Posted: 2024
Y Atilgan , K O Demirtas , A Edmans , A D Gunaydin
Does the carbon premium reflect risk or mispricing Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
149,830
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies