Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging Accounting and Corporate Governance: New Avenues of Research

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4851556

25 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Ruth V. Aguilera

Northeastern University (USA) - Department of International Business and Strategy

Kurt A. Desender

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Mónica LópezPuertas‐Lamy

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: January 08, 2020

Abstract

This essay draws on the articles in the symposium to discuss how corporate governance and accounting research complement each other well in explaining how companies are governed as well as properly managed from an accounting point of view. We put special attention to the cross-national differences in both corporate governance systems and accounting practice and how that affects multiple organizational outcomes ranging from financial performance to corporate social performance and reporting quality.

Keywords: Comparative corporate governance, accounting, CSR, board of directors, TMT, MNEs

Suggested Citation:

Aguilera, Ruth V. and Desender, Kurt A. and LópezPuertas‐Lamy, Mónica, Bridging Accounting and Corporate Governance: New Avenues of Research (January 08, 2020). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4851556, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851556 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger?
Organisational Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
R V Aguilera
Corporate governance and director accountability: An institutional comparative perspective
British Journal of Management , volume 16 , p. 39 - S53 Posted: 2005
R V Aguilera , K Desender , M Lopezpuertas-Lamy , J H Lee
The governance impact of a changing investor landscape
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 221 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
473
RANK
798,750
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies