Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Cost of Financing -the importance of the International Corporate Governance system

65 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Kurt A. Desender

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Mónica LópezPuertas-Lamy

Charles III University of Madrid

Barbara Petracci

University of Bologna- Department of Management

Pierpaolo Pattitoni

University of Bologna, Department of Statistical Sciences; University of Bologna - Rimini Center for Economic Analysis (RCEA)

Date Written: February 02, 2019

Abstract

Our study examines whether international corporate governance systems shape the relationship between a firm’s engagement in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and their cost of financing (both equity and debt). Using a large international sample, our findings reveal that while the link between CSR performance and the cost of equity is negative in a shareholder-oriented system, this relationship is positive in a stakeholder-oriented system. Furthermore, the link between CSR performance and the cost of debt is negative for firms that are close to default in both systems. Our study highlights the importance of considering the shareholder/stakeholder-orientation at the country level to explain the link between CSR performance and the cost of financing. Our findings help to explain and place into context the previous mixed findings on the relationship between CSR and the cost of equity and debt and add to the debate about whether CSR is beneficial or detrimental to corporate governance. Practitioner/Policy Implications: The analysis of how the country corporate governance system influences the effect of CSR performance on the cost of financing allows for a deeper understanding of how investors respond to CSR initiatives worldwide and offers managers, directors and policy makers context-specific recommendations. Our analysis also highlights the limitations of transferring insights regarding CSR from one corporate governance system to another.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, cost of equity, cost of debt, comparative corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Desender, Kurt A. and LópezPuertas-Lamy, Mónica and Petracci, Barbara and Pattitoni, Pierpaolo, Corporate Social Responsibility and Cost of Financing -the importance of the International Corporate Governance system (February 02, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
152 References
ASSET4 assesses all firms listed on ASX 300, Bovespa, CAC 40, DAX, FTSE 250, MSCI Emerging Markets , volume 100
We have also tested the sensitivity of our main results when dropping the largest country in each system (i.e., United States and Japan) and found that the tenor of the results does not change. 10 The mean value of default risk is Posted: 2008
Keim ; Hillman , Wang , Li Choi
If stakeholders perceive such initiatives to be opportunistic and short term oriented, it is unlikely that the firm will develop strong stakeholder relations Posted: 2001
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
RANK
805,600
4 Citations
152 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies