Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Peer Revenue Restatements Still Generate Contagion?

43 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Melissa F. Lewis-Western

Brigham Young University - Marriott School of Business

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Michael S. Wilkins

University of Kansas

Date Written: October 07, 2024

Abstract

Kedia, Koh, and Rajgopal (2015), hereafter KKR, provide evidence that cohort firms learn from peer firms’ restatements and begin manipulating revenue following a peer revenue-related restatement, particularly when the restatement is less severe. The increasing trend of less severe restatements since KKR's study along with technological advances that have made it easier for cohort firms, investors, and regulators to monitor peer firms’ financial reporting warrant a fresh look at reporting contagion. We begin our analysis by replicating KKR’s findings. Although we find evidence of contagion during their sample period, we find no such evidence after 2008. We then explore whether cohort firm responses to peer firm revenue restatements in more recent years vary based on the prior reporting aggressiveness of the cohort firm. Rather than finding evidence of reporting contagion, we find that aggressively reporting cohort firms are more likely to report conservatively in response to peer restatements. Finally, we explore whether cohort firm responses vary based on the degree to which peer restatements are likely to be scrutinized. Again, we find no evidence of contagion. Instead, we find that high scrutiny peer restatements lead to caution for cohort firms that previously were reporting aggressively. Overall, our results suggest that regulatory changes and technological advancements during the past 15 years have substantially altered how cohort firms respond to peer firm restatements.

Keywords: revenue restatements, revenue manipulation, peer firm reporting, contagion, abnormal revenue JEL Classifications: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lewis-Western, Melissa Fay and Seidel, Timothy A. and Wilkins, Michael S., Do Peer Revenue Restatements Still Generate Contagion? (October 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4852374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4852374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Altamuro , A Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
A Beatty , S Liao , J Yu
The spillover effect of fraudulent financial reporting on peer firms' investments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 183 - 205 Posted: 2013
G Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
D Bernard , T Blackburne , J Thornock
Information flows among rivals and corporate investment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 136 , p. 760 - 779 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
RANK
702,914
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies