Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Option Incentives and Firm Performance *

51 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Stephen Brown

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 01, 2003

Abstract

This paper analyzes the performance consequences of employee stock options for a broad sample of firms during the period 1996-1999. Our tests are performed separately for the top-5 executives and all other employees. We estimate the expected level of option incentives based on each firm's economic characteristics. We examine the association between the unexpected level of option incentives and firm performance as measured by future abnormal returns, future return on assets, and current and future firm value (Tobin's Q). We find consistent evidence that firms with unexpectedly high levels of option incentives exhibit significantly higher levels of firm performance. The results hold for both Executives and Employees and are consistent across each of our three measures of firm performance.

Keywords: M41 Employee stock options, financial performance, corporate governance 2001 Sheridan Road, Room 6223, Evanston, IL 60208

JEL Classification: G32, J33, L14, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen and Hillegeist, Stephen A., Stock Option Incentives and Firm Performance * (December 01, 2003). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4852362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4852362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
G Baker , B Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics Posted: 2002
L Bebchuk , J Fried , D Walker
Managerial power and rent extraction in the design of executive compensation
University of Chicago Law Review , volume 69 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
J Blasi , D Kruse , A Bernstein
In the company of owners Posted: 2003
M Brennan , T Chordia , A Subrahmanyam
Alternative factor specifications, security characteristics and the cross-section of expected stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 345 - 375 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
753,521
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies