Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Social Networks and Tax Avoidance

47 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024 Last revised: 27 Feb 2025

Ming Fang

Martin Tuchman School of Management, New Jersey Institute of Technology

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Emma Xin Xu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Zejiang Zhou

Anhui University

Date Written: June 04, 2024

Abstract

Despite the importance of social networks in determining firm behavior, research on the impact of social networks on firm tax avoidance is scarce. In this paper, we construct social networks of CFOs of U.S. companies based on their employment history, education, and non-professional activities. We find that firms with more socially connected CFOs have lower effective tax rates (ETR) than firms with less socially connected CFOs. Moreover, the ETR of a firm decreases if the CFO centrality increases. We do not find similar results for the connectedness of the boards of directors. Further, firm pairs have similar ETRs if their CFOs are socially connected, suggesting tax related information exchange among CFOs through their social networks. We also find that past ETRs of firms with central CFOs predict the ETRs of firms with non-central CFOs. This suggests that less socially connected CFOs follow more socially connected CFOs for their tax planning. Overall, our findings suggest that more socially connected CFOs have more relevant information and resources with regard to tax planning, which lead to the adoption of more aggressive tax strategies than less socially connected CFOs.

Keywords: Social Network, Tax Avoidance, CFO

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Ming and Wu, Qiang and Xu, Emma Xin and Zhou, Zejiang, CFO Social Networks and Tax Avoidance (June 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4853646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4853646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
J. Account. Econ , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
M P Arena , B Wang , R Yang
Securities litigation and corporate tax avoidance
J. Corp. Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
J. Account. Econ , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
T A Baker , T J Lopez , A L Reitenga , G W Ruch
The influence of CEO and CFO power on accruals and real earnings management
Rev. Quant. Financ. Account , volume 52 , p. 325 - 345 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
662,989
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies