Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overinvestment is Aggressive or Reckless? The Answer from Employees

13 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

NGOU TENG PUN

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM)

Chee-Wooi Hooy

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - School of Management

Zhongda He

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lin Lin

National Chi Nan University

Abstract

This study identifies that CEO characteristics can drive overinvestment to superior ROA and stock return. We employ data from Glassdoor.com, a total of 755,541 reviews, to measure the CEO's characteristics. We find that, if CEOs are approved by their employees, overinvestment can spur firm development and boost future stock premiums. To address endogeneity concerns, we use the Fama-MacBeth regression and various standards for selecting valid reviews as a robustness test, yielding consistent results. Our results emphasize that overinvestment should be perceived as an investment style but not a reckless investment, and the impact depends on the CEO's capability and morality.

Keywords: Overinvestment, Glassdoor, Employee opinion, Leadership, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

PUN, NGOU TENG and Hooy, Chee-Wooi and He, Zhongda and Lin, Lin, Overinvestment is Aggressive or Reckless? The Answer from Employees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4854482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4854482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Benlemlih , M Bitar
Corporate Social Responsibility and Investment Efficiency
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 148 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 671 Posted: 2018
T J Chemmanur , H Rajaiya , J Sheng
How does Online Employee Ratings Affect External Firm Financing? Evidence from Glassdoor
, volume 3507695 Posted: 2019
T Donaldson , J P Walsh
Toward a theory of business
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 35 , p. 181 - 207 Posted: 2015
T C Green , R Huang , Q Wen , D Zhou
Crowdsourced employer reviews and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 134 , issue 1 , p. 236 - 251 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies