Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Stock Price Crash Risk Puzzle and the Limited Role of Agency-Based Channels

21 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Neophytos Lambertides

Cyprus University of Technology

Marina Magidou

University of Central Lancashire - Cyprus; Cyprus University of Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 22, 2024

Abstract

Andreou, Lambertides, and Magidou (2023) critique the efficacy of opacity and overinvestment as agency-related channels in explaining stock price crash risk during the post-Sarbanes-Oxley Act period from 2003 to 2019. This study presents updated results using an expanded dataset that spans up to 2022 and considers a broader set of agency-based variables. Regression analysis using the updated sample reveals that the relations between opacity and crashes, as well as overinvestment and crashes, remain non-significant. Similarly, non-significant results emerge when we conduct regression analysis with two indices designed to capture a broader array of agency-related variables.

Keywords: stock price crashes, crash risk, bad news hoarding, agency theory, opacity, overinvestment

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Lambertides, Neophytos and Magidou, Marina, The Stock Price Crash Risk Puzzle and the Limited Role of Agency-Based Channels (May 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4854165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4854165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
P C Andreou , N Lambertides , M Magidou
A critique of the agency theory viewpoint of stock price crash risk: The opacity and overinvestment channels
British Journal of Management , volume 34 , p. 2158 - 2185 Posted: 2023
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
E Benmelech , E Kandel , P Veronesi
Stock-based compensation and CEO (dis)incentives
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 1769 - 1820 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
411,549
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies