Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Uncertainty and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns

71 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Tengfei Zhang

Rutgers University - Rutgers School of Business-Camden

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper evidences the explanatory power of managers’ uncertainty for cross-sectional stock returns. I introduce a novel measure of the degree of managers’ uncertain beliefs about future states: manager uncertainty (MU), defined as the count of the word “uncertainty” over the sum of the count of the word “uncertainty” and the count of the word “risk” in filings and conference calls. I find that managers’ level of uncertainty reveals valuation information about real options and thereby has significantly negative explanatory power for cross-sectional stock returns. Beyond existing market-based uncertainty measures, the manager uncertainty measure has incremental pricing power by capturing information frictions between managers’ reported uncertainty and investors’ perception of uncertainty. Moreover, a short-long portfolio sorted by manager uncertainty has a significantly positive premium and cannot be spanned by existing factor models. An application on COVID-19 uncertainty shows consistent results.

Keywords: Uncertainty, Manager, Heterogeneous Beliefs, Real Options, Cross-Sectional Stock Returns, Premium, asset pricing, Textual Analysis, Word Embedding, Machine Learning, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Tengfei, Manager Uncertainty and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4854534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4854534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
E W Anderson , E Ghysels , J L Juergens
The impact of risk and uncertainty on expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 233 - 263 Posted: 2009
D Andrei , H Friedman , N B Ozel
Economic Uncertainty and Investor Attention , volume 149 , p. 179 - 217 Posted: 2023
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
R Bachmann , S Elstner , E R Sims
Uncertainty and economic activity: Evidence from business survey data
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 5 , p. 217 - 249 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
699
RANK
97,096
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies