Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scrutinizing ESG Assurance through the Lens of Reporting

54 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2024

Cai Chen

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: June 06, 2024

Abstract

This paper assesses whether and how ESG assurance relates to ESG reporting. Using textual analysis, I examine three reporting properties (materiality, verifiability, and objectivity) relevant to the objectives of ESG assurance across an international sample. I document positive associations between ESG assurance and all three reporting properties, lending support to the usefulness of the assurance practice. These associations strengthen with assurers' greater industry experience, companies' ESG-linked compensation, and companies' high negative ESG exposure. Further analysis of detailed assurance choices (level, scope, provider, procedure) reveals their varying association with the reporting properties, highlighting the distinctions between them. Finally, exploiting the implementation of the EU NFRD of 2017, I document the enforcement role of ESG assurance within a mandatory reporting framework, particularly when assurance criteria are clearly defined. Overall, this paper presents the first international large-scale analysis of detailed assurance choices and establishes a direct link between them and ESG reporting properties.

Keywords: ESG Assurance, ESG Reporting, Reporting Properties, Materiality, Verifiability, Objectivity, EU NFRD, Mandatory Reporting, Enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Cai, Scrutinizing ESG Assurance through the Lens of Reporting (June 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4855780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4855780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Towards reliable non-financial information across Europe Posted: 2020
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
C A Adams , R Evans
Accountability, completeness, credibility and the audit expectations gap
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , issue 14 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2004
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Meheresh Masanpally , Titas Bhattacharjee , Talib E. Butt
An innovative performance assessment approach of ESG-(environment, social and governance) related risk management
Journal of Accounting Literature , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
RANK
132,890
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies