Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ensemble Learning for Corporate Internal Control

60 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2024

Yong Ma

Hunan University - School of Finance and Statistics

Mingtao Zhou

Hunan University, School of Finance and Statistics

Tianyang Wang

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Finance & Real Estate

Michelle Draeger

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 05, 2024

Abstract

This study aims to leverage advanced machine learning techniques to enhance the prediction performance of corporate internal control quality. By constructing a unique and comprehensive set of firm-specific characteristics from China and applying machine learning algorithms, we highlight the superiority of ensemble learning techniques, particularly gradient boosting trees. These techniques demonstrate exceptional predictive accuracy for internal control quality from both quantitative and statistical perspectives. This superior performance is robust across various forecasting horizons, applicable to different types of internal control subcomponents and subsamples, and consistently persists over time. Our findings reveal that financial profitability, growth rate, exposure risk, and firm size are the dominant predictive signal groups for internal control quality throughout our sample period. Moreover, firms with strong financial profitability, higher growth rates, lower exposure risk, and larger sizes typically exhibit superior internal control quality. These insights should be of significant interest to regulators, auditors, and investors focused on monitoring and improving firms' internal control quality.

Keywords: Internal control quality, Internal control determinants, Machine learning, Ensemble learning JEL: C38, C52, C55, G1, G11

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Yong and Zhou, Mingtao and Wang, Tianyang and Draeger, Michelle, Ensemble Learning for Corporate Internal Control (June 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4855480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4855480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
S Arping , Z Sautner
Did SOX section 404 make firms less opaque? Evidence from cross-listed firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1133 - 1165 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
889,053
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies