Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and Cash Policy: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

68 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2024 Last revised: 14 Jan 2025

Dhruv Aggarwal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lubomir P. Litov

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business; University of Pennsylvania - Wharton Financial Institutions Center

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 03, 2024

Abstract

This paper studies the effects of a 2016 U.S. Supreme Court decision that made it harder for prosecutors to bring corruption cases against public officeholders. We find that regulated firms headquartered in high-corruption areas, which are most vulnerable to political corruption, increased cash reserves in the years after the decision. We interpret this as suggestive evidence that the exogenous shock to anticorruption enforcement led to an increase in bribery for affected firms, because cash is a liquid and anonymous asset often used for illicit payments. The affected firms experienced negative abnormal returns near the decision, indicating that reduced anticorruption enforcement decreased firm value. Consistent with the bribery hypothesis, regulated firms in high-corruption states became less likely to be penalized by government agencies after the decision.

Keywords: Cash Policy, Corporate Governance, Regulation, Corruption

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Dhruv and Litov, Lubomir P., Corruption and Cash Policy: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (September 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4855549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4855549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Anup Agrawal , Jeffrey F Jaffe
Do takeover targets underperform? Evidence from operating and stock returns
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 721 - 746 Posted: 2003
Ahmed Al-Hadi , Grantley Taylor , Grant Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the United States related?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 344 - 389 Posted: 2022
Scott Baker , Gary Biglaiser
A Model of Cause Lawyering
The Journal of Legal Studies , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 63 Posted: 2014
Jack M Balkin
Constitutional crisis and constitutional rot
Md. L. Rev , volume 77 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies