Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Capitalized Research and Development Expenditures: a leading Indicator for future Innovation Performance?

75 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2024

Wolfgang Herb

University of Augsburg

Maria Lotze

University of Augsburg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Philipp G. Sandner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship between capitalized Research and Development (R&D) expenditures under IFRS and innovation performance measured by patent data. Under IFRS, development expenditures are capitalized when the success of an R&D investment is highly likely. Hence, such capitalization could be a leading indicator for future innovation performance. We analyze this question based on a hand-collected sample of R&D capitalization data under IFRS and patent data from the European Patent Office's Worldwide Patent Statistical Database. We find that the capitalization rate of R&D is positively related to future patent applications and citations as measures of future innovation performance. We also find a positive association with measures of future financial performance. The results imply that the rate of R&D capitalization is informative and can be considered a leading indicator for future innovation performance.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Innovation, Research and Development

Declaration of Interest

none

Ethics Approval

NA

Funder Statement

none

Suggested Citation:

Herb, Wolfgang and Lotze, Maria and Schultze, Wolfgang and Sandner, Philipp, Real Effects of Capitalized Research and Development Expenditures: a leading Indicator for future Innovation Performance? (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4856196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4856196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
170 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
D Aboody , Lev B
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Z J Acs , L Anselin , A Varga
Patents and innovation counts as measures of regional production of new knowledge
Research Policy , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 1069 - 1085 Posted: 2002
R Adams , J Bessant , R Phelps
Innovation management measurement: A review
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 47 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
819,493
170 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies