Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Necessity of Accounting and Auditing For Endowments and Holy Shrines

International conference on research approaches in management, economics, accounting and humanities, Oslo- Norway,

Posted: 8 Jul 2024

Payam Noori Doabi

Science and Research Branch of Islamic Azad University

Date Written: May 04, 2017

Abstract

Consecrated as a great asset and one of the main infrastructure of the global economy and raised in religious worldview values, social justice and cultural functions, social, economic and realizes itself. In the meantime, endowments and holy shrines as the most prominent far endowment, the largest contribution to the objectives of the play, so the abundance of holy shrines and holy shrines throughout the country of Iran and with regard to potential sources of economic importance, management and monitoring more emphasis is financial. So, accounting and auditing as a hub of information and the primary means of financial supervision in the allocation of resources, is undeniably important and necessary. Therefore, this article is the importance of the institution of various aspects, especially economic and explain the dedicated place waqf in today's society and the benefits it has brought and at the end of the accounting and auditing the importance of endowments and holy shrines have been proposed.

Suggested Citation:

Noori Doabi, Payam, A Review of the Necessity of Accounting and Auditing For Endowments and Holy Shrines (May 04, 2017). International conference on research approaches in management, economics, accounting and humanities, Oslo- Norway,, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4856576
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies