Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Racing to Accomplishment: Relative Performance Evaluation and Corporate Innovation

44 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Ke Shi

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: May 08, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of relative performance evaluation (RPE) on corporate innovation. Using a panel dataset of U.S. firms from 1998 to 2020, we find that RPE adoption in CEO compensation contracts is positively associated with innovation output, measured by patent quantity and quality. This effect is robust to endogeneity corrections using instrumental variables, propensity score matching, and Heckman selection models. The positive impact of RPE on innovation is stronger when CEOs have more long-term incentives but weaker with greater tournament incentives or CEO risk exposure. Our findings suggest that RPE encourages innovation by filtering out common shocks and aligning incentives with firm-specific, long-term performance.

Keywords: risk-taking, long-term incentives, corporate innovation, relative performance evaluation, executive compensation

JEL Classification: G34, J33, O31

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Kai and Shi, Ke, Racing to Accomplishment: Relative Performance Evaluation and Corporate Innovation (May 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4858593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4858593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
Z J Acs , D B Audretsch
Innovation in large and small firms: An empirical analysis
The American Economic Review , p. 678 - 690 Posted: 1988
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 Posted: 1999
U Akcigit , Q Liu
The role of information in innovation and competition
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 14 , p. 828 - 870 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
653,768
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies