Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring Institutional Investor Governance, Knowledge Flows, and Corporate Performance

22 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2024

Tiezhu ZHANG

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Qiuyue WANG

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Wenqin FENG

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of the shareholding ratio of monitoring institutional investors on corporate performance by analysing data from China's main board A-share listed companies from 2010 to 2021. The study suggests that an enhancement in the shareholding ratio of monitoring institutional investors during the observation period results in an enhancement in corporate performance. These institutional investors who act as regulators also act as a link between companies, making it easier for them to share information and learn from each other's mistakes, which improves the performance of all businesses. Additionally, the impact of monitoring institutional investors on corporate governance is more pronounced in regions with low levels of digital economic development.

Keywords: institutional investors, corporate governance, knowledge flow, digital economy, corporate performance

Suggested Citation:

ZHANG, Tiezhu and WANG, Qiuyue and FENG, Wenqin, Monitoring Institutional Investor Governance, Knowledge Flows, and Corporate Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4858473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4858473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M A Afonasova , Panfilova , Ee , M A Galichkina , B Ślusarczyk
Digitalization in economy and innovation: The effect on social and economic processes
Polish journal of management studies , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 22 - 32 Posted: 2019
R Aggarwal , M Ferreira
Does Governance Travel Around The World? Evidence From Institutional Investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
E Bajo , E Croci , N Marinelli
Institutional investor networks and firm value
Journal of Business Research , volume 112 , p. 65 - 80 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
381
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies