Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imperfect Expectations in Loan Loss Forecast

50 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Sanjeev Bhojraj

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Miao Liu

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Yao Lu

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Partha Sengupta

Government of the United States of America - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

Loan loss forecasts that deviate from rational expectations can have a profound impact on banks’ loan loss provisions, lending procyclicality, and financial stability, especially under the forward-looking current expected credit losses (CECL) model. The behavioral finance literature suggests that bank forecasts can be influenced by the representativeness heuristic, which posits that estimates of future events might overreact to the circumstances that a forecaster is currently experiencing. Leveraging proprietary supervisory data (from Y14A filings), we document the presence of this overreaction in banks’ loan loss forecasts. Specifically, we find that upward (downward) revisions of loan loss forecasts are significantly associated with overestimated (underestimated) future loan losses. This overestimation (underestimation) leads to increased (reduced) loan loss provision, especially for CECL adopters. Supporting its robustness and prevalence, we observe the overreaction in loan loss forecasts across loan types and in forecasts of other performance metrics. Delving deeper into a key input for loan loss forecasts, we find that banks’ regional macroeconomic forecasts exhibit the same overreaction pattern.


Keywords: Loan loss forecast, representativeness heuristic, overreaction, banks, CECL

Suggested Citation:

Bhojraj, Sanjeev and Liu, Miao and Lu, Yao and Sengupta, Partha, Imperfect Expectations in Loan Loss Forecast (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4858012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4858012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Viral V Acharya , Stephen G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Hassan Afrouzi , Augustin Spencer Y Kwon , Yueran Landier , David Ma , Thesmar
Overreaction in Expectations: Evidence and Theory
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 1713 - 1764 Posted: 2023
Aleksandar Andonov , Joshua D Rauh
The return expectations of public pension funds
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 35 , issue 8 , p. 3777 - 3822 Posted: 2022
G.-M Angeletos , Z Huo , K A Sastry
Imperfect macroeconomic expectations: evidence and theory
NBER Macroeconomics Annual Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
RANK
379,149
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies