Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Central Bank Disclosures: Firm-Level Evidence from the ECB Collateral Haircuts

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Aleksander A. Aleszczyk

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; London Business School

Ferdinand Bratek

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Aytekin Ertan

London Business School

Date Written: June 10, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores firm-specific disclosures by central banks, specifically the ECB's collateral haircuts on nonfinancial corporate bonds. We find that revisions in collateral haircuts have economically meaningful effects; these updates are associated with reactions in bond bid-ask spreads and issuer credit default swap spreads representing 2.3-3.7 percent of sample averages, and predict future changes in issuers' credit ratings and financial health. We further show that the impact of these haircut revisions is more pronounced for issuers that are riskier or have bank debt and in periods of greater uncertainty. Our study contributes to the understanding of the firm-level relevance of central-bank information and provides new insights into the role of collateral haircut policies.

Keywords: debt market, monetary policy, collateral haircuts, liquidity, credit ratings, value relevance, performance prediction

JEL Classification: E58, G14, G15, G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aleszczyk, Aleksander and Bratek, Ferdinand and Ertan, Aytekin, The Information Content of Central Bank Disclosures: Firm-Level Evidence from the ECB Collateral Haircuts (June 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4860214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4860214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
M Adler , G Camba-Méndez , T Džaja , A Manzanares , M Metra , G Vocalelli
The valuation haircuts applied to eligible marketable assets for ECB credit operations
ECB Occasional Paper Posted: 2023
H Ai , L J Han , X N Pan , L Xu
The cross section of the monetary policy announcement premium
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 1 , p. 247 - 276 Posted: 2022
A Aleszczyk , E De George , A Ertan , F Vasvari
Debt financing and collateral: The role of fair-value adjustments Posted: 2024
M Apel , M Grimaldi
The information content of central bank minutes
, issue 92 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
467,197
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies