Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board characteristics and financial decisions of indigenous Nigerian companies

corpus intellectual, volume 3, No 1

21 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Oyınlola M. Akinyede

Department of Finance, Redeemers University

Olumuyiwa olanrewaju

Redeemer's University, Ede

Date Written: March 11, 2024

Abstract

The study investigates the relationship between board characteristics and financial decision within indigenous Nigerian companies, particularly the impacts of board characteristics on the investment, dividend and financial decision within indigenous Nigerian companies. Causal-comparative research design was used to investigate the effects of board characteristics and financial decision. Data was purposively gathered from 10 indigenous Nigerian companies listed on the Nigerian stock exchange between 2012 and 2021 having considered a population of 156 indigenous Nigerian companies quoted on Nigeria stock exchange (NGX) as at July 13 2023. The fixed effects model method of data analysis and Regression was employed.The findings revealed that larger board size positively impacted the Debt to Equity Ratio of the organization which is a financial decision. This aligns with resource dependence and agency theories as Debt to Equity Ratio is influenced by the presence of a Board Committee and greater Board Diligence. The findings also shows a positive relationship exists between Board size and the Dividend per share. Thus supporting the idea that larger boards enhance dividend decision-making and financial performance

Keywords: Board characteristics, financial decisions, board size, financial performance

Suggested Citation:

Akinyede, Oyınlola M. and olanrewaju, Olumuyiwa, Board characteristics and financial decisions of indigenous Nigerian companies (March 11, 2024). corpus intellectual, volume 3, No 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4861377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A I Adamu , N M Abdulrasheed , O Ekundayo
The relationship between corporate social disclosures and board characteristics: Evidence from Nigeria
Asian People Journal (APJ) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 96 - 105 Posted: 2020
Y A Babalola
The effect of board characteristics on financial decisions of listed firms in Nigeria
Cogent Business & Management , volume 4 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
E F Brigham , M C Ehrhardt
Financial Management: Theory & Practice
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 575 - 592 Posted: 1984
A Demb , F Neubauer
The corporate board: Confronting the paradoxes Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies