Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Impact of Philanthropic vs. Dual-purpose Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Joon Seok Moon

California State University, Northridge

Date Written: June 11, 2024

Abstract

This study proposes that it is necessary to distinguish philanthropic CSR efforts from those that benefit shareholders while also serving society. I find that there is little consistent evidence that primarily philanthropic CSR engagements benefit the firm’s financial position. However, there is robust evidence that CSR initiatives that advance employee welfare or develop human capital enhance short-term and long-term financial performance. Employees are considered the most valuable assets of a company. Because human capital development constitutes a core strategic initiative of the firm, I propose removing the metric associated with human capital development when examining the relationship between CSR and performance.

Keywords: Philanthropic CSR, Employee Welfare, Labor Cost, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: G32, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Moon, Joon Seok, Differential Impact of Philanthropic vs. Dual-purpose Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives (June 11, 2024). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4861962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
T Amabile , S Kramer
Valuing your most valuable assets
Harvard Business Review , volume 19 Posted: 2011
J Apesteguia , G Azmat , N Iriberri
The impact of gender composition on team performance and decision making: Evidence from the field
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 78 - 93 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies