Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is More CSR Always Better? Evidence from Mandatory CSR Regulation and Credit Ratings

46 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2024

neetu yadav

The ICFAI University Jaipur - ICFAI Business School

Satish Kumar

ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE)

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the relation between credit ratings and CSR expenditure using mandatory CSR regulation in India as a quasi-natural experiment. We show that there is a positive relation between CSR expenditure and credit rating in India. However, the positive relation between credit ratings and CSR expenditure holds only for those firms which just comply with the regulation, not for firms which voluntarily spend on CSR activities an amount more that required by the regulation. These results suggest that forcing firms to spend on CSR activities is likely to lead to better credit rating compared to firms which either do not comply with the mandate or which voluntarily spend on CSR activities. We further show that the positive relation between credit rating and CSR expenditure is more pronounced for firms affiliated to business groups and firms with their instruments in the investment grade. Our results are robust to testing for endogeneity using the DiD and 2SLS framework and using alternative proxies of credit rating.

Keywords: Credit rating, Mandatory CSR, CSR expenditure, Business groups

Suggested Citation:

yadav, neetu and Kumar, Satish, Is More CSR Always Better? Evidence from Mandatory CSR Regulation and Credit Ratings. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
P Abad , M D Robles
Credit rating agencies and idiosyncratic risk: Is there a linkage? Evidence from the Spanish Market
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 33 , p. 152 - 171 Posted: 2014
F Alali , A Anandarajan , W Jiang
The effect of corporate governance on firm's credit ratings: further evidence using governance score in the United States
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 312 Posted: 2012
A Alp
Structural shifts in credit rating standards
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 6 , p. 2435 - 2470 Posted: 2013
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , J Suh
Corporate social responsibility and credit ratings
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 117 , p. 679 - 694 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
378
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies