Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inquiring the Extent of Contagion Risks of the Corporate Bonds on the Malawian Financial Holding Companies Subscribed Through Their Subsidiaries Licensed as Portfolio Managers 

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 2 Dec 2023

18 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

This study explored the contagion risks which the Malawian financial holdings might be exposed to as a result of the corporate bonds which their subsidiaries licensed as portfolio managers subscribe to through private placements where the public scrutiny and rigorous regulations are non-existent when compared with the issuance and subscription of the listed corporate bonds. This study has uncovered serious flaws in the accounting for the corporate bonds as these are not reflected in the financial statements of the portfolio managers thereby materially misstate the financial statements in contravention of the International Financial Reporting Standards and in total disregard of the format for the financial statements for the investment funds which the Big Four Audit Firms release from time to time for adoption by the preparers of the financial statements. It has also been noted that the Malawian financial holdings have unmitigated corporate bonds contagion risks as the issuance of those bonds are related parties which are often highly geared which otherwise would not have attracted subscription along with other huge bank loans and overdrafts. The Malawian financial holdings are therefore entangled in the complex financial relationships which are sometimes hidden by the activities of their portfolio managers. The Malawian financial industry is at risk of contagion risks if the Reserve Bank of Malawi cannot act now to regulate portfolio managers.

Keywords: Bond, Contagion, Portfolio, Manager Holdings, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Inquiring the Extent of Contagion Risks of the Corporate Bonds on the Malawian Financial Holding Companies Subscribed Through Their Subsidiaries Licensed as Portfolio Managers  (December 01, 2023). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 2 Dec 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Iwan J Azis , Sabyasachi Mitra , Anthony Baluga , Rose Dime
The Threat of Financial Contagion to Emerging Asia's Local Bond Markets: Spillovers from Global Crises
Posted: 2013
Luca Benzoni , Pierre Collin-Dufresne , Robert S Goldstein , Jean Helwege
Modeling Credit Contagion via the Updating of Fragile Beliefs Posted: 2012
Pierluigi Bologna , Arianna Miglietta , Anatoli Segura
Contagion in the CoCos Market? A Case Study of Two Stress Events
International Journal of Central Banking , volume 16 , issue 16 Posted: 2020
Mario Catalán , Alexander W Hoffmaister
Do Corporate Bond Shocks Affect Commercial Bank Lending? Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
323
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies