Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Faithful Representations on the Disclosures Regarding Debt Financing in Form of the Corporate Bond Issued by One Subsidiary and Subscribed by the Other Subsidiary of the Same and one Malawian Listed Company

15 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

Faithful representation in the financial statements is one of the core requirements for the preparers of the financial statements to ensure full compliance with section 246(1) of the Malawi Companies Act 2013 which requires that financial statements should show a true and fair view of the financial affairs of the reporting entity. The bar is raised even higher when there are intra-group transactions as that involves evaluation of the related party transactions which are prone to abuse. This study evaluated the consolidated financial statements of a listed company whose one subsidiary issued a corporate bond which was subscribed by the other subsidiary. Findings of this study indicate conflicting disclosures as the consolidated financial statements stipulated that it was a syndicated transaction contrary to the notes of the issuer which only stated a fellow subsidiary as the subscriber of the debt instrument. It was earlier reported that the debt instrument had a fixed interest rate but later it was stated as floating rate. It was also stated that the corporate bond was not issued as part of capital when it is obvious that all non-current liabilities are part of the total capital employed. Several other exceptions were also noted. It should be a wake up call for the Malawi Accountants Board and the Malawi Stock Exchange to seriously review financial statements of listed companies.

Keywords: Bond, Faithfull, Representations, Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Examining Faithful Representations on the Disclosures Regarding Debt Financing in Form of the Corporate Bond Issued by One Subsidiary and Subscribed by the Other Subsidiary of the Same and one Malawian Listed Company (December 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies