Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Language Models and M&A: Can ChatGPT help forecast M&A activity?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 150

51 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2024

Dominik Degen

Boston Consulting Group; Paderborn University

Dr. Jens Kengelbach

The Boston Consulting Group

Daniel Kim

Boston Consulting Group

Soenke Sievers

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency; Paderborn University

Yiran Wang

Boston Consulting Group

Date Written: June 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper employs ChatGPT on firms' earnings conference calls transcripts to extract managers' so far private information regarding their sentiment and expectations concerning (future) mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity. We aggregate these firm-level scores to a market wide ChatGPTbased M&A sentiment score (MASS) and successfully perform various construct validity checks including employing M&A experts and back testing. Our main results suggest that M&A sentiment has strong forecasting power for future M&A activity and adds additional explanatory power to established sentiment indices and fundamental drivers. The predictability holds for both in-sample and out-of-sample tests. Overall, our novel index will be useful to further understand M&A patterns, to predict future M&A activity, and for practitioners to evaluate and benchmark their own M&A activities.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Takeover Waves, M&A Sentiment, Generative AI, LLMs, ChatGPT, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Degen, Dominik and Kengelbach, Jens and Kim, Daniel and Sievers, Soenke and Wang, Yiran, Large Language Models and M&A: Can ChatGPT help forecast M&A activity? (June 27, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 150, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M F Ahmad , E De Bodt , J Harford
International Trade and the Propagation of Merger Waves
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 4876 - 4925 Posted: 2021
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Learning from repetitive acquisitions: Evidence from the time between deals
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 2013
A Altanlar , S Amini1 , K H Sunon
Aggregate Manager Sentiment and the Choice of Mergers and Acquisitions Payment Method Posted: 2024
P C Andreou , N Lambertides , M Magidou
Stock Price Crash Risk and the Managerial Rhetoric Mechanism: Evidence from R&D Disclosure in 10-K filings Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
598
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,612
RANK
103,625
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies