Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Suppliers' Adverse ESG Incidents Affect Corporate Customers?

48 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2024

Yicheng Sun

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Wan Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yue (Lucy) Liu

University of Edinburgh Business School

Qizhi Tao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of adverse ESG incidents involving suppliers on the performance of corporate customers. Using a sample of 1,792 U.S. listed corporate customers and their affiliated U.S. suppliers from 2008 to 2023, we discover that adverse ESG incidents in suppliers lead to negative operating outcomes for corporate customers. The negative impact remains when using alternative measures for financial performance and in an entropy-balanced sample. We further demonstrate that supplier ESG incidents are anticipated by the management of corporate customers, and that the capital market does not exhibit significant reactions to these incidents. Interestingly, we do not find evidence supporting the notion of corporate customers changing suppliers due to adverse ESG incidents. With the more pronounced negative impact observed in firms with a low level of market power, we attribute the negative impact to a lack of ability to prudently manage adverse ESG incidents from suppliers. Our findings highlight the importance of considering ESG factors in supply chains and shed light on the challenges public firms face in effectively managing ESG risks within their supply chains.

Keywords: Adverse ESG incident, supply chain, Operating performance

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Yicheng and Zhang, Wan and Liu, Yue (Lucy) and Tao, Qizhi, Do Suppliers' Adverse ESG Incidents Affect Corporate Customers?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4863232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4863232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Arena , M Arnaboldi , G Azzone
The organizational dynamics of enterprise risk management
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 659 - 675 Posted: 2010
S Agca , V Babich , J R Birge , J Wu
Credit shock propagation along supply chains: Evidence from the CDS market
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
A Alti
How persistent is the impact of market timing on capital structure?
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1681 - 1710 Posted: 2006
M Baker , J Wurgler
Market timing and capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
784
RANK
371,780
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies