Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Foreign Operations Induce Multinational Firms to Tradeoff Real Operations Earnings Management for Tax Expense Planning?

45 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2024

Joonil Lee

Kyung Hee University

Peter (Seung Hwan) Oh

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Brian Wenzel

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Yaping Zheng

University of Alberta

Date Written: June 11, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect that foreign operating activities related to production, manufacturing, purchase, and sales through subsidiaries (i.e., offshore internal input) has on the use of tax planning which reduces tax expense without increasing financial restatement risk inside multinational firms (i.e., tax expense planning). We hypothesize that increases in the offshore internal input of firms encourages managers to engage in more tax expense planning when managing earnings with real operating activities (i.e., real operations earnings management) is costly. Using a sample of multinational firms from the United States, we find that tax expense is reduced by designating a greater percentage of unremitted foreign earnings as permanently reinvestment overseas in the presence of abnormally large levels of offshore internal input. Further, consistent with our hypothesis, we find that multinational firms tradeoff costly real operations earnings management for this tax expense planning strategy. Our study contributes to the operations management literature by providing evidence that tax expense planning is a viable alternative to real operations earnings management for multinational firms, particularly when managing real operating activities is unattractive and when existing organizational structures allow firms to execute tax expense planning at relatively lower costs.

Keywords: foreign operations, multinational firms, real operations earnings management, tax planning, permanently reinvested earnings, internal production

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Joonil and Oh, Peter (Seung Hwan) and Wenzel, Brian and Zheng, Yaping, Do Foreign Operations Induce Multinational Firms to Tradeoff Real Operations Earnings Management for Tax Expense Planning? (June 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4863651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4863651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
H Akamah , O K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
D S Andrews , P C Nell , A P Schotter
And the subsidiary lives on: Harnessing complex realities in the contemporary MNEs
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 538 - 549 Posted: 2023
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
R Banker , R Huang , Y Li
Do accounting standards matter for productivity? , volume 30 , p. 68 - 84 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
601,090
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies