Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Expected Shareholder Litigation on Corporate ESG Reporting: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

57 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2024

Lijun (Gillian) Lei

University of North Carolina at Greensboro

Sydney Qing Shu

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: June 10, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the relation between expected shareholder litigation and the tone and issuance of ESG reports. We do so by exploiting a U.S. Supreme Court ruling (Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd) that exogenously reduced expected litigation costs for non-U.S. firms that trade on both U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges (i.e., U.S.-cross-listed foreign firms). We find that after Morrison, U.S.-cross-listed foreign firms increased the optimistic tone in their ESG reports. This result is consistent with firms perceiving less litigation risk tied to their optimistic ESG statements. We also document that the relative likelihood of issuing an ESG report, engaging in external assurance, or adopting the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines decreases following Morrison. As stakeholders' demand for high-quality ESG reporting continues to grow, our study provides important evidence to regulators and standard setters who seek to understand the effects of litigation risk on the quality of ESG reporting.

Suggested Citation:

Lei, Lijun and Shu, Sydney Qing and Thomas, Wayne B., The Effect of Expected Shareholder Litigation on Corporate ESG Reporting: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (June 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4863130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4863130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
C M Ajax , D Strauss
Corporate sustainability disclosures in American case law: Purposeful or mere puffery?
Ecology Law Quarterly , volume 45 , p. 703 - 734 Posted: 2019
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
D M Autore , I Hutton , D R Peterson , A H Smith
The effect of securities litigation on external financing
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 27 , p. 231 - 250 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
331,544
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies