Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Keep the seller in business: Takeover premia in earnout financed M&A

28 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Arne Voßmann

Ruhr University of Bochum

Date Written: June 14, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how earnout agreements in M&A transactions are designed to retain the target's managing shareholders. Using a sample of 209 seller-and 209 acquirer-managed private earnout targets from 2000 to 2021 that are matched via Propensity Score Matching, it reveals that the seller's compensation and incentivization to stay with the target are priced into the purchase price. On average, seller-managed earnout targets are associated with a 20% higher takeover premium that is primarily paid through the earnout payment. Moreover, the length of the earnout period, during which the seller provides expertise, is explicitly and exclusively considered in the earnout payment. This paper contributes to the understanding of earnout agreements and in particular of their components and the associated takeover premia. The findings emphasize the dependence of the earnout design on the post-closing control of the target firm, offering insights for practitioners and complementing prior literature in this field.

Keywords: M&A, Earnout agreements, Takeover premium, Managing shareholder, Control structure, Earnout design

Suggested Citation:

Voßmann, Arne, Keep the seller in business: Takeover premia in earnout financed M&A (June 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4865376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4865376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
G Alexandridis , K P Fuller , L Terhaar , N G Travlos
Deal size, acquisition premia and shareholder gains
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 20 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2013
K D Allee , D D Wangerin
Auditor monitoring and verification in financial contracts: evidence from earnouts and SFAS 141(R)
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1629 - 1664 Posted: 2018
L G Barbopoulos , S Adra
The earnout structure matters: Takeover premia and acquirer gains in earnout financed M&As
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 45 , p. 283 - 294 Posted: 2016
L G Barbopoulos , P Molyneux , J O S Wilson
Earnout financing in the financial services industry
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 47 , p. 119 - 132 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
864,457
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies