Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset-Based Carbon Accounting for Entities with Carbon Neutrality Targets to Compare Their Carbon Management Performance and Carbon Neutrality Plans

36 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2024

Howard Cheung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

To mitigate climate change, corporates that are not under legal carbon emission limits are declaring their carbon neutrality goals and disclosing how they reduce carbon emission annually. However, current carbon accounting and carbon neutrality disclosure methods only report their annual carbon emission but not their capabilities to lower their future carbon emission. This study enables entity stakeholders to assess if an entity can follow their carbon neutrality plan by an asset-based carbon accounting method. This is performed by introducing a new statement carbon neutrality milestone and target statement and categorizing allowed carbon emission as a liability and a negative equity. A case study is performed to show how the method enables non-compliance risk assessment by financial ratio analysis and compares entities’ carbon neutrality plans. It also recognizes an entity’s effort on avoided emission, but has limitations to recognize entities’ gaming with their carbon neutrality pledges.

Keywords: Carbon accounting, carbon management, carbon neutrality

Suggested Citation:

Cheung, Howard, Asset-Based Carbon Accounting for Entities with Carbon Neutrality Targets to Compare Their Carbon Management Performance and Carbon Neutrality Plans. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4865663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4865663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending Regulation
Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU, as regards corporate sustainability reporting , volume 537 Posted: 2014
Hkex
Enhancement of Climate-related Disclosures Under the Environment, Social and Governance Framework Posted: 2023-04
Oecd
Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting: A Stocktaking of Government Schemes
OECD Working Papers on International Investment Posted: 2012-06-01
A Howell , M Schreck
Carbon Conundrum: The Curious Case Of Financed Emissions
Environmental Defense Fund Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies