Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Merge or Not to Be - Case Study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation and Export Development Fund

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023

6 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

It is always the desire of the Government of Malawi to ensure that State-owned companies and statutory bodies perform by meeting their objectives, are financially sound and that deliberate strategies are put in place to address any adverse variances with merging of entities being one appropriate strategy. This study evaluated the Government of Malawi's commitment to the International Monetary Fund to merge Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation (MAIIC) and Export Development Fund (EDF) a wholly owned subsidiary of Reserve Bank of Malawi as part increasing its chances to get increased facilities from the IMF. The Government of Malawi has invested about MWK11.300 billion in MAIIC but has failed to attract other investors to raise MWK750 billion to uplift agricultural and industrial sectors in Malawi. On the other hand EDF has made substantial losses in excess of MWK12.800 billion in delinquent loans thereby wasting public resources. The merging process of MAIIC and EDF could perhaps improve the Government's resources as demanded by Malawi Code II. The results of this study however indicate that it is not possible to do so as this would violate both the Malawi Companies Act 2013 and the Public Finance Management Act 2022. It is envisaged that the results of this study can be applied to current and future similar plans of the Government of Malawi to test any violations of the written law before commitments can be made to third parties.

Keywords: MAIIC, EDF, Malawi, Merge

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, To Merge or Not to Be - Case Study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation and Export Development Fund (March 01, 2023). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4866812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4866812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies