Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seductive Language for Narcissists in Job Postings

58 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Jonathan Gay

University of Mississippi

Scott B. Jackson

University of South Carolina

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

Prior research indicates that narcissistic executives engage in earnings management and other negative organizational behaviors, and many studies ponder why firms hire such individuals, especially into corporate accounting positions. Utilizing a selection of terms from real-world job postings that we characterize as either describing a “Rule-Bender” or “Rule-Follower" candidate, we first conduct several validation studies which reveal that these terms vary predictably across types of job postings, that people generally agree with our categorization of these terms, and that Rule-Benders are viewed as possessing worse managerial skills but a higher proclivity for unethical behavior. We then demonstrate that narcissistic job seekers are more attracted to job postings that describe the ideal candidate using Rule-Bender terms for both general positions (Experiment 1) and senior accounting positions (Experiment 2). Finally, we examine firm characteristics that might lead professional recruiters to incorporate Rule-Bender language into Chief Accounting Officer job postings and find that Rule-Bender terms are preferred for higher-growth, higher-innovation firms (Experiment 3), and when more aggressive reporting would benefit the firm (Experiment 4). Our results suggest that recruiters’ language choices can attract Rule-Bending narcissists to firms, perhaps even in unintended circumstances.

Keywords: Narcissism, job postings, earnings management, accounting, financial officers, bending rules, executive recruitment, recruiters, hiring practices, language

Suggested Citation:

Gay, Jonathan and Jackson, Scott B. and Seybert, Nicholas, Seductive Language for Narcissists in Job Postings (September 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4866862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4866862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J Jennings , K Olsen , M Soliman
The impact of the CEO's personal narcissism on non-GAAP earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
M Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: the role of accounting, behavior, and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue 3-4 , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
M Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
The role of professional control in the management of complex organizations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1995
T Amabile
A model of creativity and innovation in organizations
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 167 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
RANK
166,639
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies