Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining the Controlling Interest in the Public Limited Company With Partially Issued Share Capital - Case Study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023

13 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

An appropriate memorandum and articles of association of any given company provides the contractual obligations between the company itself as a separate legal personality on one side and its shareholders and directors on the other. This study has uncovered serious flaws in the memorandum and articles of association of MAIIC which among other things include wrong format not compliant with Malawi Companies Act 2013 and missing ceilings/caps for some classes of shares. There is also serious doubt on the real non-controlling interest as the Government of Malawi pumped in about MWK11.300 billion enabling MAIIC to be licensed under Capital Adequacy Directive while other shareholders pumped in meagre resources. The purported non-controlling interest does not consolidate the financial statements thereby contravening IFRS 3 and IFRS 10 as well as Malawi Companies Act 2013 and Public Finance Management Act 2022. It is recommended that the Government of Malawi should assume full control of MAIIC as it has plans to merge it with the Export Development Fund. There is a need to quickly amend and refile the memorandum and articles of association to correct the visible shortfalls.

Keywords: MAIIC, CDH, share-capital, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Determining the Controlling Interest in the Public Limited Company With Partially Issued Share Capital - Case Study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation (March 01, 2023). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4866818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4866818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Steve Chilundu
Initiative gets 100 Financing Proposals
Financial Services (Capital Adequacy for Development Finance Institutions) Directive Posted: 2018
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Accounting for Disposals of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures in Malawian Listed Companies
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2020
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Control controversies in Malawian Banking Industry Acquisitions
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 46
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Evaluating the Effectiveness of External Auditors for Public Limited Companies in Malawi
SSRN Applied Accounting -Practitioner eJournal , volume 4 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies