Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Distraction: An Unintended Consequence of M&As

69 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2024 Last revised: 18 Oct 2024

Ying Dou

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Emma Jincheng Zhang

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: December 05, 2017

Abstract

We find that Mergers and Acquisitions (hereafter M&As) can cause severe distractions for audit teams of the acquirors. Distracted audit teams cause delays in the filings of annual financial reports by their other clients and are more likely to lose those clients. Consequently, those other clients experience lower audit quality, evidenced by higher chances of financial misstatements and shareholder class action lawsuits due to misstatement or misrepresentation of material information. Finally, the market reacts negatively to auditor distractions, suggesting a significant shareholder wealth impact. Our paper identifies a channel for M&As to create an adverse impact on firms that merely share the same auditor with the acquiror firms.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Audit office, Audit Quality, Auditor Attention, Market Reaction

JEL Classification: G34, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Ying and Zhang, Emma Jincheng, Auditor Distraction: An Unintended Consequence of M&As (December 05, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 Posted: 2021
M J Beck , J R Francis , J L Gunn
Public company audits and city-specific labor characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 394 - 433 Posted: 2018
J J Burke , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , S Xiao
The disclosure and consequences of us critical audit matters
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 59 - 95 Posted: 2023
Y Cai , Y Kim , J C Park , H D White
Common auditors in m&a transactions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , p. 77 - 99 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
819,493
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies