Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Debt Financing on Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria

Journal of Accounting, Volume 12, No. 1, Pp29-41, January - June 2023

Posted: 19 Jul 2024

Emmanuel Chukwuma Ebe

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

Peter Emeka Nwankwo

Enugu State University of Science and Technology

Obaji Samuel Itumo

Ebonyi College Of Education

Chibuike Isaac Inyaeze

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

Date Written: January 06, 2023

Abstract

The study investigated the effect of debt financing on financial performance of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. The study addressed a number of objectives: to examine the effect of debt to equity ratio on return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria; ascertain the effect of total debt ratio on the return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria; and determine the effect of long-term debt ratio on the return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. The study adopted secondary panel data obtained from firms' annual reports and accounts from 2011 to 2022 and expo facto research design. Descriptive statistics was used to analyze the data and OLS Regression analysis was employed to test the hypotheses at 5% level of significance. The results revealed that debt-equity ratio was insignificant and negative effect on return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria, similarity total debt ratio is not significant also documented negative relationship on return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria, while long term debt ratio was also not significant at 5% level though has positive effect on return on assets of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. Based on these findings, the recommendation among others is that management of these firms should be careful when using debt as its source of financing its activities, they should seek to finance their activities with retained earnings and use debt as a last option as supported by the pecking order theory. Long term debt finance is mostly used by highly tangible firms, hence, policies that would encourage growing firms accumulate huge tangible assets should be pursued. Hence, tax concession and exemptions can be approved.

Keywords: Leverage, Profitability

Declaration of Interest

We collaborate with ideas and at the same time share the PC of the journal.

Suggested Citation:

Ebe, Emmanuel Chukwuma and Nwankwo, Peter Emeka and Itumo, Obaji Samuel and Inyaeze, Chibuike Isaac, Analysis of Debt Financing on Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria (January 06, 2023). Journal of Accounting, Volume 12, No. 1, Pp29-41, January - June 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867727
 Not Available for Download
34 References
D K Y Abeywardhana , K M R &magoro
Debt capital and financial performance: A comparative analysis of South African and Sri Lankan listed companies
Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 127 Posted: 2017
A Ajibola , O Wisdom , O L &qudus
Capital structure and financial performance of liosted manufacturing firms in Nigeria
Journal of Research in International Business and Management , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 89 Posted: 2018
O Akaji , E O Nwadialor , N &agubata
Effect of debt financing on firms performance in Nigeria
Journal of Accounting and Financial Management , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 60 - 73 Posted: 2021
C B Akeem , T K Ediwin , A Kinjanjui&kayode
Effects of capital structure on firm's performance: empirical study of manufacturing companies in Nigeria
Journal of Finance and Investment Analysis , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 39 - 57 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
343
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies