Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Resources Accounting and Financial Performance of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria

FUW Journal of Accounting and Finance Vol. 5, Issue 7, January 2023

Posted: 19 Jul 2024

Emmanuel Chukwuma Ebe

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

P. E. Nwankwo

Enugu State University of Science and Technology

Ogechi Ibe Abuchi-Ani

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

Date Written: January 07, 2023

Abstract

The study was carried out to investigate the effect of human resource accounting on financial Performance of manufacturing firms listed in Nigeria. Thus, the study critically investigated the extent and nature of the association between human resource accounting staff training/recruitment cost, staff salaries/remuneration, staff pension cost and staff gratuity cost, these variables were proxy for Human Resource Accounting while financial performance was measured using firms' profit for the year. Secondary data were collected from the annual reports of the selected companies for the period of 2010-2020 and analysis was run with the aid of E-view output 9. The empirical result revealed that both staff training/recruitment cost and staff gratuity cost have significant positive influence positive influence on the profit for the year of the selected listed companies in Nigeria. Further, it was revealed that Staff salaries/remuneration and Staff pension cost has insignificant negative effect on profit for the year of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria. The study concludes that human resources accounting has significant effect on financial performance of manufacturing firms in Nigeria. Implication of the findings: it will improve resource allocation among the companies, and it will assist management in the employment, locating and utilization of human resources, finally it will evaluate the policy along with employee's performance in the areas where improvement is needed. Based on these findings, the study recommends that firms should adopt viable human resource accounting variables in their operations. Again, they are advised to ensure that the relevant training and retraining packages designed for performance improvement is well embraced by all employees for better performance on the job. Besides, the firm management of manufacturing companies should make retirement benefits attractive so as to draw most excellent brain to their respective firms and establishments.

Keywords: Human resource accounting, firm performance, staff remuneration and retirement settlement

Suggested Citation:

Ebe, Emmanuel Chukwuma and Nwankwo, P. E. and Abuchi-Ani, Ogechi Ibe, Human Resources Accounting and Financial Performance of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria (January 07, 2023). FUW Journal of Accounting and Finance Vol. 5, Issue 7, January 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867811
 Not Available for Download
41 References
R A Adams
/ (2020) public sector Accounting and finance made simple, fourth edition, Corporate Venture publishers, 30, ijaoye Shumantreet
A B Akinsola
Human Resources accounting: the myth and reality
The Nigeria Accountant , p. 18 - 20 Posted: 2012
N N Amahalu , M C Abiahu , J C Obi , E C Okika
Effect of human resource accounting on Financial performance of quoted deposit money bank in Nigeria Electronic Posted: 2019
C O Aronnu , N Ijeoma
of human Resources Accounting on financial statement of Nigeria Bank
International Journal of Advancement is Research & Technology , volume 2 , issue 8 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies