Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Money vs. Social Conscience: Cases of Corporate Social Irresponsibility

65 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Dien Giau Bui

Yuan Ze University

Ting-Hsuan Chen

National Taichung University of Science and Technology

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Chih-Yung Lin

National Chiao Tung University

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

We examine how local social capital affects the stock trading and performance of retail investors. Our identification relies on unexpected events of corporate social irresponsibility (CSIR). First, we find that the stock returns lower and the trading volumes increase immediately before the announcements of CSIR events but reverse thereafter. Second, investors who live in high social capital cities trade CSIR stocks less frequently. Findings indicate that norm-constrained investors with strong social capital forgo their financial profits because of their unfavorable views on CSIR stocks. They appear to avoid these underpriced CSIR stocks instead of buying them to earn profits.

Keywords: retail investors, corporate social irresponsibility, normconstrained investors, abnormal returns, social capital

Declaration of Interest

NO

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G41, M14, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Bui, Dien Giau and Chen, Ting-Hsuan and Hasan, Iftekhar and Lin, Chih-Yung, Money vs. Social Conscience: Cases of Corporate Social Irresponsibility (June 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
G A Akerlof
A Theory of Social Custom, of which Unemployment may be One Consequence
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 94 , p. 749 - 775 Posted: 1980
R Alcadipani , C R Medeiros , O De
When Corporations Cause Harm: A Critical View of Corporate Social Irresponsibility and Corporate Crimes
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2019
P Antonetti , S Maklan
An Extended Model of Moral Outrage at Corporate Social Irresponsibility
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 135 , p. 429 - 444 Posted: 2016
M Atkinson , A Fowler
Social capital and voter turnout: Evidence from Saint's Day fiestas in Mexico
British Journal of Political Science , volume 44 , p. 41 - 59 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
RANK
897,300
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies