Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employment Protection and Debt Structure Concentration: International Evidence*

59 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Lemma Senbet

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiaolan Zheng

University of Nottingham, Ningbo China -Nottingham University Business School China

Date Written: June 16, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of variations and changes in employment protection regulations on corporate debt structure concentration in an international setting. To that end, we use Institutional Theory, which emphasizes the importance of a diverse and dynamic institutional landscape in shaping business choices of firms. We argue that frictions imposed by labor institutions influence the firm's optimal choice of debt concentration because concentrated debt reduces financial distress costs and risk-shifting incentives, alleviating the credit constraints resulting from stringent labor protection. We test this prediction using an international sample of 118,131 firm-year observations from 40 countries over the period 2001-2018. We find that when employment protection is stronger, firms tend to use fewer debt types, suggesting the credit constraints hypothesis explains the choice of debt structure concentration. The positive relationship between employment protection and debt concentration is more pronounced for firms most impacted by changes in employment protection, including those with greater labor intensity and turnover, those in countries with greater union density, and those in countries under better systems of law and order. Additional analysis shows stronger effects of employment protection on debt concentration in financially constrained firms, firms with greater information asymmetry, and firms in countries where efficient coordination of concentrated debt generates greater benefits.

Keywords: Labor market institutions, Employment protection, Debt structure, Legal institutions

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Senbet, Lemma and Zheng, Xiaolan, Employment Protection and Debt Structure Concentration: International Evidence* (June 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
T Agmon
Bringing financial economics into international business research: Taking advantage of a paradigm change
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 575 - 577 Posted: 2006
M Aleksynska , M Schindler
Labor market regulations in low-, middle-and high-income countries: A new panel database Posted: 2011
A Alimov
Labor market regulations and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 46 , issue 8 , p. 984 - 1009 Posted: 2015
A Alimov
Labor protection laws and bank loan contracting
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 74 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
432,018
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies