Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substitutes or Complements? The Role of the Board in Moderating the Relationship between Board Diversity And Earnings Management

54 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2024

Nuthawut Sabsombat

University of Strathclyde

Julia A Smith

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Tang Leilei

University of Strathclyde

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the interaction effect of Board roles and Board diversity on earnings management, utilising a comprehensive theoretical framework to explain the relationship between Board characteristics and earnings quality.  We find that Board diversity negatively affects accruals earnings management (AEM) but positively affects real earnings management (REM), suggesting that companies might switch between earnings management techniques, substituting AEM for REM.  We also discover that Board monitoring and advisory functions reduce earnings management.  The findings suggest that the substitutive role, which balances Board diversity and Board roles, has more influence on AEM. Although Board diversity may increase REM, it can decrease REM when the complementary function of Board roles is considered.  Additionally, we find that firms comprising Board with diversity and up to three monitoring committees, specifically audit, compensation, and nominating committees, can mitigate earnings management.  Furthermore, a company with a single advisory committee and a diverse Board can reduce earnings management.  This suggests that corporate governance mechanisms function as a substitute or complementary component of an integrated governance bundle to enhance the quality of corporate earnings.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board diversity, Board roles, Earnings Management, Substitutes, Complements

Suggested Citation:

Sabsombat, Nuthawut and Smith, Julia A and Leilei, Tang, Substitutes or Complements? The Role of the Board in Moderating the Relationship between Board Diversity And Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elmahgoub , A A Elamer
Female Audit Partners and Extended Audit UK Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , issue 1 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2020
O H Abdelsalam , D L Street
Corporate governance and the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by U.K. listed companies
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 130 Posted: 2007
S N Abdullah , K N I K Ismail
Women directors, family ownership and earnings management in Malaysia
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 525 - 550 Posted: 2016
R B Adams , J De Haan , S Terjesen , H Van Ees
Board Diversity: Moving the Field Forward , volume 23 , p. 77 - 82 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
279
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies