Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mixed Ownership Reform and Non-state-owned Enterprise Innovation: Evidence From China

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 2, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-03-2023-0025]

26 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2024

Runze Ling

Shandong University

Ailing Pan

Shandong University - School of Finance

Lei Xu

University of South Australia - UniSA Business School

Date Written: June 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines the impact of China's mixed-ownership reform on the innovation of non-state-owned acquirers, with a particular focus on the impact on firms with high financing constraints, low-quality accounting information or less tangible assets. 
Design/methodology/approach: We use a proprietary dataset of firms listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges to investigate the impact of mixed ownership reform on non-state-owned enterprise (non-SOE) innovation. We employ regression analysis to examine the association between mixed ownership reform and firm innovation. 
Findings: The study finds that non-state-owned firms can improve innovation by acquiring equity in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) under the reform. Eased financing constraints, lowered financing costs, better access to tax incentives or government subsidies, lowered agency costs, better accounting information quality and more credit loans are underlying the impact. Additionally, cross-ownership connections amongst non-SOE executives and government intervention strengthen the impact, whilst regional marketisation weakens it. 
Originality/value: This study adds to the literature on the association between mixed ownership reform and firm innovation by focussing on the conditions under which this impact is stronger. It also sheds light on the policy implications for SOE reforms in emerging economies.

Keywords: Non-state-owned enterprises, Innovation, Mixed-ownership reform, State-owned enterprises, China

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Runze and Pan, Ailing and Xu, Lei, Mixed Ownership Reform and Non-state-owned Enterprise Innovation: Evidence From China (June 01, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 2, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-03-2023-0025], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4868855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
M Amore , C Schneider , A Zaldokas
Credit supply and corporate innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 855 Posted: 2013
S Badi , L Wang , S Pryke
Relationship marketing in Guanxi networks: A social network analysis study of Chinese construction small and medium-sized enterprises
Industrial Marketing Management , volume 60 , p. 204 - 218 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
703
RANK
897,300
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies