Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Current Expected Credit Loss Model on Conditional Conservatism of Banks and Its Spillover Effect on Borrower Conservatism

The Accounting Review, 99(6), 389-420


52 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2024 Last revised: 2 Nov 2024

Xinrong Qiang

Xiamen University

Jing Wang

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

Under the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) model, banks should fully recognize expected lifetime credit losses upon loan origination while gradually recognizing interest revenues. This timelier recognition of losses versus gains (i.e., conditional conservatism) makes banks more capital constrained. To mitigate this, banks may (1) offset timelier credit losses by lowering conservatism in other earnings components and (2) reduce credit losses by demanding greater borrower conservatism. We find that, under CECL, banks increase conservatism in loan losses but decrease conservatism in other earnings components, making overall conservatism only marginally increase. In sharp contrast, their borrowers increase conservatism by 40 percent, and borrowers' increase is twice that of banks. This substantial spillover effect suggests that, by greatly increasing borrowers' conservatism, CECL may strengthen debt governance of a broad scope of firms in the economy, thereby having economy-wide consequences beyond the banking industry and potentially enhancing the stability of the entire economy.

Keywords: Current Expected Credit Loss Model, accounting conservatism, bank regulation, debt governance. JEL Classifications: G21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Qiang, Xinrong and Wang, Jing, The Effect of the Current Expected Credit Loss Model on Conditional Conservatism of Banks and Its Spillover Effect on Borrower Conservatism (June 17, 2024). The Accounting Review, 99(6), 389-420
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4868246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4868246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: Evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S Ryan
Conditional conservative fair value measurements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 98 Posted: 2017
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S Ryan
Debiasing the measurement of conditional conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
202,123
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies