Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Green Firms More Financially Constrained? The Sensitivity of Investment to Cash Flow

43 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Alberto Zazzaro

University of Naples Federico II

Tommaso Oliviero

CefES; MoFiR; - Centre for Studies in Economics and Finance (CSEF)

Sandro Rondinella

University of Naples Federico II

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Green investment by private companies is essential to sustainable growth paths in the advanced economies. Whether, and to what extent, investments by green firms are hampered by lack of external finance is an open question. Here we estimate the sensitivity of investment to internal finance in firms engaging in green innovation, finding that the elasticity of investment to cash flow is four times less for green than for non-green firms. This result is stronger among smaller firms and robust to alternative definitions of “green firms.” Our findings indicate that green firms are less financially constrained, consistent with the growing perception of the importance of the green transition, which potentially affects financial investors outside the company.

Keywords: Green Investment, cash flow, external finance, Financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Zazzaro, Alberto and Oliviero, Tommaso and Rondinella, Sandro, Are Green Firms More Financially Constrained? The Sensitivity of Investment to Cash Flow. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4868427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4868427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Accetturo , G Barboni , M Cascarano , E Garcia-Appendini , M Tomasi
Credit supply and green investments Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , P Aghion , L Bursztyn , D Hemous
The environment and directed technical change
American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 166 Posted: 2012
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , D Hanley , W Kerr
Transition to clean technology
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 52 - 104 Posted: 2016
P Aghion , L Boneva , J Breckenfelder , L A Laeven , C Olovsson , A A Popov , E Rancoita
Financial markets and green innovation Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
344
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies