Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Managerial Decisions: The Impact of Mandatory Disclosure on Investment Sensitivity to Stock Price in Emerging Markets

46 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2024

Ying Lu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gary Gang Tian

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Xingqiang Yin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Junrui Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of mandatory disclosure on managerial learning in emerging markets, using China's industry-specific disclosure guidelines as an exogenous shock. Employing a difference-in-differences analysis, we discover that mandatory disclosure enhances a firm's investment sensitivity to stock prices, signaling improved managerial learning from market signals. This boost in learning is primarily driven by an increase in stock price informativeness, as indicated by the probability of informed trading. The effects are notably stronger for firms facing high macroeconomic uncertainty and significant competitive pressures. Additionally, the impact of these disclosures varies with regional economic development levels. Overall, our findings demonstrate that mandatory disclosure positively influences managerial learning in emerging markets.

Keywords: Mandatory Disclosure, Industry-specific Disclosure Guidelines, Managerial learning, Investment Sensitivity to Stock Price, emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Ying and Tian, Gary Gang and Yin, Xingqiang and Zhang, Junrui, Enhancing Managerial Decisions: The Impact of Mandatory Disclosure on Investment Sensitivity to Stock Price in Emerging Markets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4868603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4868603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S Armitage , C Marston
Corporate disclosure, cost of capital and reputation: Evidence from finance directors[J]
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 314 - 336 Posted: 2008
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative? [J]
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms[J]
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
T E Bakke , T Whited
Which firms follow the market? An analysis of corporate investment decisions
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 5 , p. 1941 - 1980 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
336
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies