Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short and Synthetically Distort: Investor Reactions to Deepfake Financial News

43 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Scott A. Emett

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

Recent advances in artificial intelligence have led to new forms of misinformation, including highly realistic "deepfake" synthetic media. We conduct three experiments to investigate how and why retail investors react to deepfake financial news. Results from the first two experiments provide evidence that investors use a "realism heuristic," responding more intensely to audio and video deepfakes as their perceptual realism increases. In the third experiment, we introduce an intervention to prompt analytical thinking, varying whether participants make analytical judgments about credibility or intuitive investment judgments. When making intuitive investment judgments, investors are strongly influenced by both more and less realistic deepfakes. When making analytical credibility judgments, investors are able to discern the noncredibility of less realistic deepfakes but struggle with more realistic deepfakes. Thus, while analytical thinking can reduce the impact of less realistic deepfakes, highly realistic deepfakes are able to overcome this analytical scrutiny. Our results suggest that deepfake financial news poses novel threats to investors.

Keywords: deepfake, misinformation, investor decisions, artificial intelligence, short and distort, pump and dump

Suggested Citation:

Emett, Scott A. and Eulerich, Marc and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Wood, David A., Short and Synthetically Distort: Investor Reactions to Deepfake Financial News (June 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4869830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4869830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R K Aggarwal , G Wu
Stock Market Manipulations
The Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 1915 - 1953 Posted: 2006
H Ajder , G Patrini , F Cavalli , L Cullen
The State of Deepfakes: Landscape, Threats, and Impact Posted: 2019
D Alba
How Fake AI Photo of a Pentagon Blast Went Viral and Briefly Spooked Stocks
Bloomberg.com Posted: 2023
H Allcott , M Gentzkow
Social Media and Fake News in the 2016 Election
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , p. 211 - 236 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
801
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,182
RANK
70,880
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies