Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of the Geographic Origin of Controlling Shareholders to Firms' Earnings Management

53 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Liangyin Chen

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether controlling shareholders' geographic origin affects their firms' accounting transparency. We document that firms controlled by local shareholders exhibit less earnings management. Consistent with expectations, crosssectional evidence implies that this impact is concentrated in highly diversified firms, firms with higher stock price synchronicity, firms with a CEO duality structure, firms with ownership structures more conducive to insider diversion, and firms located in regions with high social capital. Additionally, we find that CFOs are more likely to serve as directors for firms controlled by local shareholders and that these firms develop stronger internal control systems. Further, we show that firms controlled by local shareholders suffer fewer restatements and regulatory sanctions, adopt more conservative accounting policies, and are more likely to receive clean audit opinions. Collectively, our evidence suggests that local shareholders are less motivated to manipulate earnings to boost short-term performance at the expense of long-term firm value.

Keywords: Local controlling shareholder, earnings management, geographic origin JEL Classification: G30

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G40, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Liangyin and Chen, Yangyang and Huang, Jun and Pittman, Jeffrey A., The Importance of the Geographic Origin of Controlling Shareholders to Firms' Earnings Management (June 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4869117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4869117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
C Agoglia , T Doupnik , G Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
459,150
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies