Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dynamic Effects of Debtor Bankruptcy on Unsecured Creditors' Stock

Forthcoming at the Journal of Financial Stability

54 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2024

Dinh Trung Nguyen

University of Adelaide

Thu Phuong Pham

Curtin University; IPAG Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Anh Tran

Indiana University Bloomington - School of Public & Environmental Affairs (SPEA)

Ralf Zurbruegg

University of Adelaide; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 12, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores the dynamic effects of counterparty risk on stock liquidity using data on unsecured creditors after a debtor has declared bankruptcy. Through matched pair fixed effect panel regressions, we find that liquidity for unsecured creditors reduces after such declarations but only in the short term. This is evidenced by increases in various spread measures and Kyle's (1985) lambda and decreases in the bid depth differentials between the stocks of the unsecured creditors and the matched firms. Additionally, we find the greater the credit exposure, the greater the decline in liquidity. In the long term, debtor bankruptcies appear to have no effect on spread measures. Rather, the market depth for unsecured creditor stocks improves.

Keywords: JEL Classification: G10, G15, G18 Liquidity, unsecured creditors, bankruptcies, market depths, counterparty risk

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Dinh Trung and Pham, Thu Phuong and Tran, Anh and Zurbruegg, Ralf, The Dynamic Effects of Debtor Bankruptcy on Unsecured Creditors' Stock (August 12, 2024). Forthcoming at the Journal of Financial Stability, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4869270 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4869270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
B E Adler
Financial and political theories of American corporate bankruptcy
Stanford Law Review , p. 311 - 346 Posted: 1993
J Affleck-Graves , C M Callahan , N Chipalkatti
Earnings predictability, information asymmetry, and market liquidity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 561 - 583 Posted: 2002
E I Altman
Evaluating the chapter 11 bankruptcy-reorganization process
Colum. Bus. L. Rev , volume 1 Posted: 1993
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
726
RANK
177,110
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies