Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are firms (getting) ready for the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 148

34 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2024

Urska Kosi

Paderborn University; University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Paula Relard

University of Paderborn - Faculty of Business Administration, Economics and Business Computing

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

The study examines whether the announcement and passing of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) impacts the sustainability reporting of German firms. It sheds light on the interdependence of various actors, sectors and policy levels by examining how regulatory changes at the policy level affect the reporting practices of firms across multiple sectors. On the one hand, the scope of the CSRD is being extended, so that new firms falling within its scope may increase their voluntary sustainability reporting as part of the preparation process. On the other hand, the reporting requirements will be more stringent, so that firms currently under the mandate of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) may enhance their sustainability reporting disclosure practices in preparation for the CSRD. First, we find no increase in voluntary sustainability reporting by firms that are not under the scope of the NFRD but will be under the scope of the CSRD. Second, we find enhanced sustainability reporting practices by firms that are subject to the NFRD after the CSRD's announcement and passing. This finding suggests that these firms begin to implement the new reporting requirements before the first reports are published in 2025. We illuminate the preparation for extensive reporting changes through sustainability reporting disclosure practices as an outcome of the preparation process. These changes may represent a high burden, particularly for firms with no previous experience of sustainability reporting.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, disclosure practices, reporting requirements, Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD), Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)

Suggested Citation:

Kosi, Urska and Relard, Paula, Are firms (getting) ready for the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive? (June 18, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4870357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4870357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
165,708
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies