Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact and Mechanism of Political Party Involvement in Governance on Corporate Financialization

17 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2024

Qi Yang

Gansu University of Political Science and Law

Hua Wei

Gansu University of Political Science and Law

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of a novel form of political connection, namely, the involvement of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in corporate governance, on corporate financialization. Using data spanning the period from 2011 to 2021 and sourced from companies listed on the Chinese A-share market, our study sheds light on the influence of CPC participation in corporate governance on corporate financialization. Our findings indicate that CPC involvement in corporate governance exerts a restraining influence on corporate financialization by stimulating investment in research and development (R&D) and the real economy. Moreover, our analysis, incorporating heterogeneity considerations, reveals that this restraining effect is particularly pronounced among firms characterized by higher equity concentration, those operating in the manufacturing sector, and those classified as private enterprises.

Keywords: Communist Party of China, Corporate governance, Corporate financialization, Research and development, investment in the real economy

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Qi and Wei, Hua, The Impact and Mechanism of Political Party Involvement in Governance on Corporate Financialization. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4870722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4870722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M Faccio
Politically Connected Firms[J]
American Economic Review , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 369 - 386 Posted: 2006
M Faccio , R W Masulis , J J Mcconnell
Political Connections and Corporate Bailouts[J]
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 6 , p. 2597 - 2635 Posted: 2006
E Goldman , J Rocholl , J So
Do Politically Connected Boards Affect Firm Value?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2331 - 2360 Posted: 2009
M M Correia
Political connections and SEC enforcement[J]
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 262 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies