Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A review of ex ante and ex post materiality measures, and consequences and determinants of material disclosures in sustainability reporting

28 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024 Last revised: 1 Nov 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Mahsa Mohammadrezaei

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

The purpose of the review is to synthesize the research on materiality measures of sustainability reporting and highlight how preparers, users, auditors, regulators, and other stakeholders assess or determine the materiality in sustainability reporting. The review further summarizes the findings on the consequences and determinants of material disclosures in sustainability reporting. Several directions for future research are also discussed. Design/methodology/approach: This study provides a systematic review of materiality measures developed in the context of sustainability reporting. This synthesis of the literature summarizes the existing methodologies of measuring materiality. It also evaluates the strengths and limitations of existing methods and approaches of measuring materiality in sustainability disclosures. Findings: We find that the ex post materiality measures are simplistic and unidirectional in nature and ex ante materiality measures lack external validity and are generally narrow in focus-for example, focused on single firms or industries. Another major limitation in the current literature is the absence of robust empirical investigation of double materiality in sustainability reporting and a vast majority of the measures are developed without stakeholder engagement. Lastly, we document that the findings on determinants of material disclosure are fragmented and inconclusive and along with the literature on consequences of material disclosure is rather unexplored. Originality: The study explains the connections and differences between the various materiality measures. We document that materiality is measured in two distinct ways, ex ante and ex post and often times without stakeholder engagement. Moreover, given a vast majority of the measures rely on manual content analysis, they suffer from reproducibility and scalability.

Keywords: Literature review, materiality, sustainability, materiality determinants, materiality consequences, dual materiality

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Mohammadrezaei, Mahsa, A review of ex ante and ex post materiality measures, and consequences and determinants of material disclosures in sustainability reporting (April 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4871728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4871728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Abhayawansa
Swimming against the tide: back to single materiality for sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1361 - 1385 Posted: 2022
J Adolph , M Beckmann
Corporate sustainability strategy: from definitional ambiguity toward conceptual clarification
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 33 , p. 4708 - 4729 Posted: 2024
G Aras , N Tezcan , O K Furtuna , E H Kazak
Corporate sustainability measurement based on entropy weight and TOPSIS: a Turkish banking case study
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 391 - 413 Posted: 2017
F Ardente , G Beccali , M Cellura , A Marvuglia
POEMS: a case study of an Italian wine-producing firm
Environmental Management , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 350 - 364 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
702,914
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies