Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Constitutionalization of Corporate Governance in International Law

88 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Dennis West

University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Centre for Socio-Legal Studies

Date Written: August 28, 2013

Abstract

The constitutionalization of corporate governance exemplifies the current responses to fragmentation, verticalization and deformalization in international financial law. Transnational enterprises as actors of international law faced many attempts of regulations to comply with international human rights and environmental law. At the same time global capital market regulation experiences major changes: increasingly, private-public rule-making, polycentric networks and multi-stakeholder initiatives involve new actors and produce new legal instruments. Focusing on corporate reporting standards, this thesis examines the question of how global capital market regulation can integrate international human rights and environmental law into corporate governance in a proportionate way. The author presents the foundations to understand the current shift from corporate social responsibility to environmental and social corporate governance through the change from financial reporting to sustainability and integrated reporting. The analysis of relevant international standards, standard setters and applications in selected national jurisdictions provide the basis for suggestions on integrated market regulation and due diligence of transnational enterprises.

Keywords: Constitutionalization, corporate governance, international law, standard setting, environmental social and corporate governance, sustainability reporting, integrated reporting, accounting and audit, global capital market regulation, business regulation, transparency, risk, transparency

Suggested Citation:

West, Dennis, The Constitutionalization of Corporate Governance in International Law (August 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4871109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4871109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
365 References
Rs Eugh
C-22/98, Slg. 1999, p. I-5665, Rn. 26 -BECU; EuGH, Rs. C-309/99, Slg Posted: 2002
14 Forbes list of Global 2000 leading listed companies Posted: 2007
World Investment Report Posted: 2009
Nye
Multinational Corporations in World Politics
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
365 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies