Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moderating Impact of Board Composition on the Relation Between Company Attributes and Performance of Banks in Nigeria

15 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2024

Jibril Ali Zangina

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Date Written: June 22, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the moderating impact of board composition on the relationship between company attributes and the performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria. A hierarchical regression model consisting of hypothesised board composition, company attributes and performance were formulated and subjected to various diagnostic and robustness tests to ascertain the Best Linear Unbiased Estimators (BLUE) in the model. The analysed model output determines whether board composition moderates the relationship between company attributes with performance in Nigerian Banks and by what statistical margin of significance. The study concludes that, board composition has a significant moderating effect on the relationship between Firm Characteristics (leverage) and Corporate performance (return on equity) of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria. Further, results indicate a positive and significant impact of board size and firm size on corporate performance (return on equity), while Winsorized leverage, firm age and board composition indicate a negative but significant effect on corporate performance (return on equity). These results support the Agency notion, which entails practical proof of the positive impact of board characteristics and firm attributes on corporate performance. This study recommends that the board composition structure of the Nigerian Banks be expanded as an industry requirement with a view to create more legitimacy that may perhaps spur sustainable performance measures be taken by board of directors; so that the interests of the Banks are aligned with other stakeholders in the society.

Keywords: Board Composition, Company Attributes, Corporate Performance

Declaration of Interest

This research was sponsored by the Nigerian Tertiary Education Trust Fund

Ethics Approval

This research was a secondary data-based research using publicly available documents.

Funder Statement

The Nigerian Tertiary Education Trust Fund through its Institutional Based Research funding is acknowledged for sponsoring this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Zangina, Jibril Ali, Moderating Impact of Board Composition on the Relation Between Company Attributes and Performance of Banks in Nigeria (June 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4873935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4873935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H Aguinis , J C Beaty , R J Boik , C A Pierce
Effect size and power in assessing moderating effects of categorical variables using multiple regression: a 30-year review
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 107 Posted: 2005
H Aguinis
Regression analysis for categorical moderators Posted: 2004
F A Almaqtari , N H Farhan , H M Al-Hattami , T Elsheikh
The moderation role of board independence change in the relationship between board characteristics, related party transactions, and financial performance
PLoS ONE , volume 17 , issue 12 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2022
S Amedu
Impact of C E O power on company performance Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
464
RANK
672,649
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies