Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Harmonisation of Accounting Imperialism – An Australian Perspective

41 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: July 04, 2005

Abstract

Numerous authors, both practitioners and scholars, have constructed various justifications for the international harmonisation of accounting standards. To understand the motive behind establishing and implementing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), this paper examined two reasons cited in the literature (reduction in cost of financial reporting and improvement in capital market efficiency) which argue for the setting of a global set of standards. This paper examined the constitution of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the relative positions of power of the member nations such as Australia, the EU and the US. The paper then analyses how IFRS help to expand imperialism. Subsequently, the post World War II imperialism of the US is examined to understand how the US can emerge as the most influential nation in setting globally enforced accounting standards.

Keywords: Australia, EU, IASB, IFRS, imperialism

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, International Harmonisation of Accounting Imperialism – An Australian Perspective (July 04, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4873211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4873211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
K Alfredson
Pathway to 2005 IASB standards
Australian Accounting Review , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 8 Posted: 2003
S Amin
Imperialism and globalisation
Monthly Review , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 6 - 24 Posted: 2001
P Armstrong
Professional Knowledge and Social Mobility: Postwar Changes in the Knowledge-Base of Management Accounting
Work, Employment & Society , volume 71 Posted: 1993
M Annisette
Imperialism and the professions: the education and certification of accountants in Trinidad and Tobago
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 631 - 659 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies