Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Legal Counsels as Transaction Cost Engineers in Syndicated Loan Contracting

70 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2024 Last revised: 21 May 2025

Roberto Vincenzi

Bocconi University

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Peeyush Taori

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 23, 2024

Abstract

We report new evidence that external legal counsels (ELCs) are important in shaping the terms of syndicated loan contracts. Using a dataset of ELCs representing borrowers and lenders, we find that ELCs explain significant variation in loan contract characteristics. We then investigate the channel through which ELCs are influential, introducing their role as transaction cost engineers (TCEs) who reduce information asymmetries between lenders and borrowers. Loans involving a connected ELC who advises a lender (borrower) while having a recent working relationship with the borrower (lender) have lower interest spreads, lower covenant intensity, and less strict covenants. The connected ELC contracting effects are stronger when information asymmetry is higher. Furthermore, loans with connected ELCs are less likely to be downgraded or default, suggesting that the involvement of connected ELCs provides ex post loan performance benefits. Our evidence supports an additional role of ELCs as transaction cost engineers who reduce information asymmetries between loan contracting parties.

Keywords: Syndicated Loans, Debt Contracts, Law Firms

JEL Classification: G21, G32, D82

Suggested Citation:

Vincenzi, Roberto and Pope, Peter F. and Taori, Peeyush,
External Legal Counsels as Transaction Cost Engineers in Syndicated Loan Contracting
(June 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4874020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4874020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
M A Ahmed , J M Carabias
From Accounting to Economics: The Role of Aggregate Special Items in Gauging the State of the Economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
Y Altunbas , B Gadanecz , A Kara
Syndicated Loans. A Hybrid of Relationship Lending and Publicly Traded Debt Posted: 2006
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber , K Bae , V K Goyal
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
Creditor Rights, Enforcement, and Bank Loans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
747,544
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies