Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Co-Option and Audit Quality: Evidence from Us

40 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2024

Asif Saeed

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences (NUCES or FAST-NU)

Najoua Elommal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Umer Iqbal

Northumbria University

Samar Alharbi

Saudi Electronic University

Abstract

Motivated by the recent literature on the role of board co-option in corporate governance, this study inquires about the relevance of board co-option intensity and a firm's adoption of quality audit practices. Using a sample of 9,605 listed US firm-year observations; we measure the association between board co‒option and audit quality. We find that more (less) board co‒ option is associated with lower (higher) audit quality. Furthermore, we also find consistent evidence with alternate proxies of audit (measured with audit fee) and board co‒option (measured with tenure-weighted co‒option, independent co‒option, and tenure-weighted independent co‒option). To alleviate the endogeneity concerns, we use two identification strategies like PSM, and IV‒Probit. Additionally, we also explored that this association is more pronounced when firms have weak internal as well as external governance structures. Overall, our findings suggest that co‒opted boards compromised the financial assurance by hiring the non‒BIG4 audit partners.

Keywords: Board co‒option, Audit Quality, BIG4, corporate governance, Governance mechanism.

Suggested Citation:

Saeed, Asif and Elommal, Najoua and Iqbal, Umer and Alharbi, Samar, Board Co-Option and Audit Quality: Evidence from Us. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4874623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4874623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees. Auditing: A journal of practice & theory , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The journal of finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Adams , D Ferreira
Moderation in groups: Evidence from betting on ice breakups in Alaska
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 882 - 913 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
819,493
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies