Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CEOS Overpower Blockholders and Governance Mechanisms in CEO Turnover?

49 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2024

Monica Jurin

James Cook University

Abstract

Although corporate governance practices and shareholder protection have improved over time, CEO turnover remains an opaque process in China. I used the longest panel data from 2002 to 2022 to investigate CEO power channels through structural, ownership, and prestige power on CEO turnover in the presence of blockholders in China. Generalized estimating equations are used to examine each channel of CEO powers against the same power by the directors and shareholders, and overall effects. The predicted CEO turnover is then used to investigate the impacts of CEO turnover and similar power channels on firm performance. I find CEO ownership power dominates ultimate blockholders and shareholder directors in deterring CEO turnover. Different levels of ultimate ownership concentration of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and Individuals have varying effects on turnover. In addition, CEO prestige through external directorships also prevents their departure. Both power channels positively affect firm performance in the post-turnover period. CEO structural power through CEO-Chairman duality has a weak effect and is not robust. There are important implications for the use of corporate governance and equity-based incentive plans. Governance mechanisms are endogenous, and their combined effects can vary in different ownership settings. Moreover, power channels can be endogenous, which affects the effectiveness of equity-based incentive plans. CEOs who hold shares face the dual role of being top executive and minority shareholders in the presence of blockholders, which affects strategic decisions and firm performance.

Keywords: CEO turnover, CEO power, corporate governance, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Jurin, Monica, Do CEOS Overpower Blockholders and Governance Mechanisms in CEO Turnover?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4874610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4874610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Aggressive boards and ceo turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 437 - 486 Posted: 2021
Z S Alam , M A Chen , C S Ciccotello , H E Ryan
Does the location of directors matter? Information acquisition and board decisions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2014
A Amin , L Chourou , S Kamal , M Malik , Y Zhao
It's who you know that counts: Board connectedness and csr performance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2020
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: Balancing family influence in s&p 500 firms [Article]
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies