Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Data Asset Disclosure Affect Bank Credit Decisions?

18 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2024

Kun Qian

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Chenxi Pan

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Xinyv Liang

Xiamen University

Abstract

As elucidated in the Provisional Regulations, data resources in China are set to be recognized as assets and thus deemed integral to financial statements, mandating a readiness for data disclosure within the enterprise domain. In this regard, the study utilizes a sample of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2012 to 2022, seeking to innovatively explore and discern the repercussion of data asset information disclosure on bank credit decisions in the context of the digital economy. Employing the Word2Vec neural network model to measure the level of enterprise data asset disclosure and bolstered by a meticulously crafted fixed effects model, the study's findings distinctly underscore that enterprise data asset information disclosure levels has a substantial effect on bolstering banks' credit support to enterprises. This effect is primarily attributed to the heightened transparency of information and the mitigation of future business risks. Furthermore, a nuanced heterogeneity analysis unveils that non-state-owned enterprises, non-Internet communication industries, and economic policy dynamics reinforce that enterprise data asset information disclosure significantly augments the prospects of securing bank loans. These conclusions serve to underscore the pivotal role of strengthening enterprise data asset information disclosure, refining the precision of credit services and steering the bidirectional integration of financial technology and informatization.

Keywords: Data assets, bank credit, Digital Economy

Suggested Citation:

Qian, Kun and Pan, Chenxi and Liang, Xinyv, Does Data Asset Disclosure Affect Bank Credit Decisions?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4874619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4874619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Botosan C A
Disclosure level and the cost of capital[J]
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 114 - 127 Posted: 1997
O E Barron , D Byard , C Kile , E J Riedl
High-technology intangibles and analysts'forecasts[J]
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
A N Berger , N H Miller , M A Petersen , R G Rajan , J C Stein
Does Function Follow Organizational Form?Evidence From the Lending Practices of Large and Small Banks[J]
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 237 - 269 Posted: 2005
B Cheng , I Ioannou , Serafeim
Corporate social responsibility and access to finance [J]
Strategic Management Journal , issue 35 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
484,103
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies