Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Engagements and Audit Quality

Posted: 29 Jun 2024

Junsheng Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Yue Qi

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Xuefeng Jing

Sun Yat-sen University

Yamin Zeng

Jinan University

Date Written: March 31, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether the practice of appointing engagement partners from different offices, known as joint-office audits, influences audit quality and audit costs. Joint-office audits may positively affect audit judgments if they strengthen auditor independence and facilitate effective division of labor based on the client’s geographical distribution, and they may worsen those judgments if posing communication challenges. Using unique data on the office affiliation of individual auditors, we find that the use of joint-office audits is associated with higher audit quality without a fee premium. The benefits of employing partners from two separate offices are driven by the increased geographic distance between the two offices and the geographic proximity between audit offices and client’s operating segments. Our study has implications for policymakers because our evidence suggests that joint-office audits provide benefits similar to those expected from joint firm audits, while not being plagued by negatives such as fee premium and free-riding problems.

Keywords: joint audit, joint-office audit, audit quality, auditor independence, geographic distance

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Junsheng and Qi, Yue and Jing, Xuefeng and Zeng, Yamin, Joint Engagements and Audit Quality (March 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4875612
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies