Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Loss Provisioning in Community Banks – a Study with New Community Banking Data

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Abdullah Mamun

University of Saskatchewan - Department of Finance and Management Science

Dev Mishra

University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Yeibei He

KPMG

Abstract

We use Federal Deposits Insurance Corporation (FDIC)’s new dataset to examine loan loss provisioning in the U.S. community banks. We find that community banks use loan loss provisions (LLPs) to smooth their income, however, there is (is no) support for incurred (expected) loan loss model of loan loss provisioning. In addition, we find community banks employ a dynamic income smoothing process using loan charge-offs to keep allowance account near flat overtime. Our evidence suggests LLPs are sensitive to variations in local economic conditions. While we find no heterogeneity in income smoothing between community banks that are part of bank holding companies and standalone community banks, our evidence suggests that publicly traded community banks do not indulge in income smoothing. Perhaps, external monitoring of traded community banks by regulators, investors and analysts helps maintain optimal LLPs and curtail LLPs’ use for income smoothing.

Keywords: loan loss provisioning, income smoothing, community bank

Suggested Citation:

Mamun, Abdullah and Mishra, Dev R. and He, Yeibei, Loan Loss Provisioning in Community Banks – a Study with New Community Banking Data. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4875392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4875392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
P.-R Agénor , L P Silva
Cyclically adjusted provisions and financial stability
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 28 , p. 143 - 162 Posted: 2017
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
R B Avery , K A Samolyk
Bank consolidation and small business lending: the role of community banks
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 25 , issue 2-3 , p. 291 - 325 Posted: 2004
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend?
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies