Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Transitory Client Characteristics on Auditor Switching Cost

48 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2024 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Christian Friedrich

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Sebastian Kronenberger

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: June 25, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether transitory client characteristics affect auditor switching cost. Switching costs hinder auditor-client matching, thus presenting a friction to clients' financial reporting quality and credibility. Transitory characteristics, such as accruals or short-term losses, may not affect total audit cost over the entire audit tenure if they reverse over time because costincreasing effects (high accruals or short-term losses) and cost-decreasing effects (low accruals or profits) even out. However, the cost-increasing effects of transitory characteristics in a firstyear audit amplify start-up cost. As start-up cost is sunk in later periods, this amplification has a persistent effect on total audit cost. Using contemporaneous audit fees over the entire audit tenure to measure whether amplified start-up cost persist, we find evidence for a substantial persistent effect of transitory client characteristics during the switching year. Its magnitude is similar to average switching cost estimates. Thus, we identify a significant friction of auditor switching.

Keywords: accruals, audit fees, auditor switches, loss, low-balling

Suggested Citation:

Friedrich, Christian and Kronenberger, Sebastian, Effects of Transitory Client Characteristics on Auditor Switching Cost (June 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4876229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4876229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
tenure of an auditor-client pairing if the discretionary accruals rank lowest among the five discretionary accruals from the five-year window ending in the initial year of the auditor-client pairing and those five discretionary accruals comprise at least two income-increasing (positive sign) and two income-decreasing (negative sign) discretionary accruals. In model 1, LOW is a dummy variable coded as one if, in addition to the mentioned criteria, the client has negative discretionary accruals in the year before the initial year of the auditor-client pairing. In models, 4, 6, and 8, LOW is a dummy variable coded as one for the entire tenure of an auditor-client pairing if LOSS = 0 in the initial year of the auditor-client pairing and LOSS = 1 and LOSS = 0 at least two times in the client's five consecutive years ending in the initial year of the auditor-client pairing
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
A Barua , C Lennox , A Raghunandan , T B Bell , R Doogar , I Solomon
Are audit fees discounted in initial year audit engagements?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 , issue 2-3 , p. 729 - 760 Posted: 2008
M Cho , E Ki , S Y Kwon
The effects of accruals quality on audit hours and audit fees
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 372 - 400 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
RANK
730,194
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies