Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Mandate to Market Across the Globe: The Impact of Mandatory ESG Disclosure on the Cost of Equity Capital

73 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Cameron Truong

Monash University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Tung Lam Dang

The University of Danang

Duc Trung Do

Bangor University

Thang Ho

University of Bradford

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the impact of mandatory environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosures on the cost of equity capital across the globe. Utilizing a dataset including firms from 62 countries and a difference-in-differences framework, we document a significant reduction of 50 basis points in the cost of equity capital for firms compelled to adopt ESG disclosure requirements. This reduction is particularly pronounced in jurisdictions with robust legal enforcement and well-defined social norms, as well as in countries where implementation mandates originate from government entities. Our analysis highlights two underlying mechanisms contributing to the decline in equity capital costs: (1) heightened disclosure and enhanced information quality, and (2) increased institutional ownership stemming from E&S-conscious investors. Furthermore, firm value rises through the change in the cost of equity capital, rather than the change in the cash flow channel, after the disclosure mandates. Collectively, our findings lend support to the notion that disclosing non-financial ESG information not only enhances information environments but also materially impacts the cost of equity capital.

Keywords: mandatory ESG disclosure, cost of equity capital, information environment, Institutional investors

Suggested Citation:

Truong, Cameron and Dang, Tung Lam and Do, Duc Trung and Ho, Thang, From Mandate to Market Across the Globe: The Impact of Mandatory ESG Disclosure on the Cost of Equity Capital. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4877934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4877934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The Big Three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,821
RANK
88,637
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies