Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Payouts and Firm-Level R&D Investment: International Evidence

26 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Thomas Goda

Universidad EAFIT; Universidad EAFIT - School of Economics and Finance - Center for Research in Economic & Finance (CIEF)

Cristhian Larrahondo

Universidad EAFIT - School of Economics and Finance - Center for Research in Economic & Finance (CIEF)

Abstract

Existing literature has extensively studied the factors affecting investment in research and development (R&D) and the impact of shareholder value orientation on physical capital formation. In contrast, studies on the effect of dividend payouts on R&D investment are scarce, limited to a few countries, and present mixed findings. We contribute to the literature by presenting novel evidence that dividend payouts are negatively correlated with firm-level R&D investment. To this end, we consider a sample of 6,787 publicly listed non-financial firms from 72 countries during the period 2010-2018. Employing Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimations, we find that dividend payouts are a negative correlate of firm-level R&D investment. This finding supports the contention that dividends and R&D investments represent competing demands on firms’ internal funds so that shareholder value orientation reduces firm-level R&D activities. The practical implication of this insight is that stakeholders interested in a firm’s long-term growth should advocate for corporate governance structures that disincentivize a strong alignment of management with dividend-driven shareholder interests.

Keywords: innovation, research and development (R&D), Shareholder value-orientation, Financialization, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Goda, Thomas and Larrahondo Dominguez, Cristhian David, Dividend Payouts and Firm-Level R&D Investment: International Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4877886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4877886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R V Aguilera , R Crespi-Cladera
Global corporate governance: On the relevance of firms' ownership structure
Journal of World Business , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 57 Posted: 2018
M F Ahmad , S Aziz , M Dowling , O Kowalewski
Board reforms and innovation
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 88 Posted: 2023
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
M Asad , S Akbar , J Li , S Z A Shah
Board diversity and corporate propensity to R&D spending
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 89 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
635,835
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies