Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time-Frequency Spillover Effects and Causal Paths of Policy Uncertainty on China's Steel Industry Chain: From Raw Materials to Finished Products

21 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Guowei Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

An Haizhong

China University of Geosciences, Beijing

Abstract

This paper explores the time-frequency spillover effects between China's policy uncertainty and steel industry chain using the TVP-VAR-BK model, and employs the streaming algorithm to identify the causal paths. The results indicate that short-term spillover effects dominate. Policy uncertainty impacts raw materials more than finished products, with climate policy uncertainty being most significant. "Trade policy uncertainty → iron ore → rebar" and "climate policy uncertainty → coking coal → hot rolled coil" are the main causal paths in the short term and medium to long term, respectively. Controlling the main causal path is more effective in stabilizing the short-term market.

Keywords: Policy uncertainty, Steel industry chain, Time-frequency spillover effect, Causal path

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Guowei and Haizhong, An, Time-Frequency Spillover Effects and Causal Paths of Policy Uncertainty on China's Steel Industry Chain: From Raw Materials to Finished Products. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4877216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4877216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
N Antonakakis , I Chatziantoniou , D Gabauer
Refined measures of dynamic connectedness based on time-varying parameter vector autoregressions
J. Risk Financ. Manag , volume 13 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
L Bai , X Zhang , Y Liu
Economic risk contagion among major economies: New evidence from EPU spillover analysis in time and frequency domains
Physica A-Stat. Mech. Appl , volume 535 Posted: 2019
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Q. J. Econ , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
J Barunik , T Krehlik
Measuring the frequency dynamics of financial connectedness and systemic risk
J. Financ. Economet , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 296 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
186
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies