Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Press the Gourd Dipper Float: ESG Performance Shortfalls and Earnings Manipulation

38 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Rongwei Zhang

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Shanyong Wang

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Abstract

Corporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance is a core key criterion for investors and other stakeholders to evaluate the level and capability of corporate sustainability. Corporate with ESG performance shortfalls may be exposed to pressures from capital markets and social concerns, which in turn may lead to misconduct behavior in dealing with these pressures. Leveraging data from Chinese A-share companies listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2011 to 2021, our study pioneers an examination of how ESG performance shortfalls influence corporate earnings manipulation behavior. Our findings reveal that both ESG social and historical performance shortfalls amplify corporate manipulation of accrued profits. Mechanism analysis unveils that ESG performance shortfalls escalate the incentives for corporate earnings manipulation by diminishing institutional investor ownership, heightening the risk of stock price crashes, and escalating corporate finance costs. Meanwhile, ESG social and historical performance shortfalls also exerts adverse economic consequences on corporate productivity and scale. Furthermore, cross-sectional analyses indicate that fortifying internal control management, enhancing information disclosure, bolstering media attention, and fostering environmental justice initiatives by the government can effectively mitigate the corporate earnings manipulation behavior triggered by ESG performance shortfalls. This research offers a fresh lens for comprehending corporate ESG performance shortfalls and provides practical guidance for crafting pertinent policies for governments and firms.

Keywords: ESG, ESG Performance shortfalls, Earnings manipulation, Productivity and scale

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Rongwei and Wang, Shanyong, Press the Gourd Dipper Float: ESG Performance Shortfalls and Earnings Manipulation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4877467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4877467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
C K Andreou , P C Andreou , N Lambertides
Financial distress risk and stock price crashes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
A Aouadi , S Marsat
Do ESG controversies matter for firm value? Evidence from international data
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 1027 - 1047 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
RANK
759,678
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies