Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Asymmetry and Dividend Policy around the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Journal of Economic Studies(forthcoming)

43 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2024

Mostafa Harakeh

American University of Beirut

Ghida Matar

Lebanese American University

Nagham Sayour

Zayed University

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The literature of financial economics documents a causal relationship between the level of information asymmetry in the firm and its dividend policy. Nevertheless, this relationship suffers endogeneity problems arising from reverse causality and omitted variable bias. The purpose of this study is to examine how the dividend policy reacts to changes in asymmetric information in an exogenous research setting.

Design/methodology/approach: To overcome endogeneity concerns, we employ the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in the US in 2002 as a source of an exogenous variation in the level of information asymmetry to study the potential effect that this variation might have on the dividend policy. In doing so, we utilize a difference-indifferences research design, in which the treatment group is US publicly traded firms that were exposed to the policy and the control group is publicly traded companies in the UK where SOX was not enacted. Both countries have similar institutional settings and enforcement of laws, which makes them comparable in our research context. Findings: Our findings show that, compared to UK companies, US firms increase their dividend payments following a reduction in asymmetric information as a result of the SOX enactment. 

Originality/value: The study contributes to the literature of financial economics by showing that policy makers can mitigate agency conflicts and protect shareholders by improving the corporate information environment and reducing asymmetric information.

Keywords: Information shocks, Information Asymmetry, Dividend Policy, Corporate Financial Decisions, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Harakeh, Mostafa and Matar, Ghida and Sayour, Nagham, Information Asymmetry and Dividend Policy around the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (January 01, 2020). Journal of Economic Studies(forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4878266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
N Abdioglu , V Bamiatzi , S T Cavusgil , A Khurshed , K Stathopoulos
Information asymmetry, disclosure and foreign institutional investment: An empirical investigation of the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 902 - 915 Posted: 2015
V Acharya , T Eisert , C Eufinger , C Hirsch
Real Effects of the Sovereign Debt Crisis in Europe: Evidence from Syndicated Loans
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 2855 - 2896 Posted: 2018
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
H Al-Shaer , M Harakeh
Gender Differences in Executive Compensation on British Corporate Boards: The Role of Conditional Conservatism
Press Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies