Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The details matter: SEC regulatory guidance and informativeness in non-GAAP disclosure decisions

Meditari Accountancy Research. https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-04-2023-1975

48 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2024 Last revised: 10 Nov 2024

Hrishikesh Desai

Arkansas State University

Michael J Davern

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting; University of Melbourne

Date Written: June 27, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to examine how managers make non-GAAP exclusion decisions depending on the regulatory guidance provided and their motivations. Guidance detail is a double-edged sword: resolving uncertainty but risking rule-based compliance over principled judgment.

Design/methodology/approach: This paper uses the context of non-GAAP measures in reporting, given the history of Securities and Exchange Commission changes in guidance detail. Drawing on theories of epistemic motivation and process accountability, this paper manipulates the goal of management (informativeness vs. opportunism) and guidance detail to examine effects on management decisions to exclude an ambiguous charge

The 2×2 between participants experiment with 132 managers reveals that more detailed guidance increases likelihood of exclusion of an ambiguous charge. This paper further finds that this exclusion is more likely when management is given an informativeness goal, a result of a mediating effect of epistemic motivation. However, these findings only hold at low levels of process accountability.

Practical implications: The findings regarding the psychological concepts recognize the influence of perceived decision uncertainty by suggesting how managers respond to the level of regulatory guidance detail, offering regulators and auditors a basis for understanding and anticipating managerial reporting choices. Also, awareness of heightened epistemic motivation under the informativeness goal provides a nuanced practical understanding of non-GAAP decision drivers. Finally, the finding that effects are more pronounced for managers with lower process accountability highlights the significance of organizational accountability structures in guiding managerial choices, which can inform board-level governance and control decisions.

Keywords: Non-GAAP, SEC guidance, Informativeness, Opportunism, Judgment, Decisionmaking, Uncertainty, Epistemic motivation, Process accountability G38

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Hrishikesh and Davern, Michael J., The details matter: SEC regulatory guidance and informativeness in non-GAAP disclosure decisions (June 27, 2020). Meditari Accountancy Research. https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-04-2023-1975, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4879066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
H R Arkes
Costs and benefits of judgment errors: Implications for debiasing
Psychological Bulletin , volume 110 , issue 3 Posted: 1991
J Aughton , J Burns , K Crawford
Controls and Non-GAAP Measures
Deloitte & Touche LLP Heads Up , volume 23 , issue 21 Posted: 2016-07-19
A G Backof , E M Bamber , T D Carpenter
Do auditor judgment frameworks help in constraining aggressive reporting? Evidence under more precise and less precise accounting standards
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 51 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
384
RANK
856,579
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies