Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary disclosures and monetary policy: evidence from quantitative easing

64 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2024

Roberto Vincenzi

Bocconi University

Date Written: June 28, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of central bank private-sector quantitative easing (QE) policies on firms' voluntary disclosures. While the effects of QE on borrowing costs and asset prices are well documented, spillovers in the disclosure realm remain understudied. This study specifically analyzes the effects of the Corporate Sector Purchase Program (CSPP), a privatesector QE policy implemented by the European Central Bank (ECB) in 2016 targeting corporate bonds in the euro area. Applying a difference-indifferences methodology to pre-and post-CSPP periods, I find that firms whose bonds the central bank purchased under the CSPP decreased their voluntary disclosures, particularly those related to cash flows and liabilities. My analysis attributes this decrease to reduced demand for firm-specific information from the central bank. My findings highlight the indirect consequences of QE monetary policy tools on corporate disclosure and contribute to the understanding of the transmission of monetary policy and investor-clientele dynamics.

Keywords: Bond Market, Voluntary Disclosure, Corporate Sector Purchase Program, Quantitative Easing, Monetary Policy, Investor Clientele

Suggested Citation:

Vincenzi, Roberto, Voluntary disclosures and monetary policy: evidence from quantitative easing (June 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4879494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4879494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
M Adelino , M A Ferreira , M Giannetti , P Pires
Trade credit and the transmission of unconventional monetary policy
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 775 - 813 Posted: 2022
P André , A Filip , R Moldovan
Diversified firms and analyst earnings forecasts: the role of management guidance at the segment level
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2019
Ó Arce , S Mayordomo , R Gimeno
Making room for the needy: The creditreallocation effects of the ECB's corporate QE
Review of Finance , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 84 Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , J Kepler
Accounting quality and the transmission of monetary policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
620
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies