Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Sustainability Reports on Improving the Accuracy of Financial Predictions in the Egyptian Business Environment: An Applied Study

26 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2024

Israa Dabour

May University in Cairo; Elgazeera High Institute

Date Written: October 03, 2023

Abstract

The paper dealt with the impact of sustainability reports in its three forms(the annual report on sustainability, the annual report of the board of directorsand substantial disclosures about sustainability practices) through itsvarious economic, environmental and social dimensions, in order to test theability of these reports to improve the accuracy of financial forecasts in theEgyptian business environment. Local and international efforts related tosustainability reports, as one of the forms of voluntary disclosure in accordancewith the rules of listing securities in the Egyptian Stock Exchange.From 2015 to 2019, the paper, by relying on the hierarchical multiple regressionmethod, found the effect of the three reports on the accuracy of financialforecasts with the net profit of the sample items at the level (1%) compared tothe impact of the annual sustainability reports and the annual report of theBoard of Directors only on The accuracy of the predictions of the fair value ofthe shares of the sample items at the level (1%) with the ability to interpret it(40.3%) compared to (68.3%), respectively. The paper recommends the legislativebodies concerned with the development of corporate laws, the necessityof legislating new articles within those laws, regulating the process of sustainabledevelopment and disclosing sustainability within companies. EncouragingEgyptian companies to issue sustainability reports by offering a setof incentives through the regulatory authorities (the Egyptian Stock Exchangemanagement) and the supervisory authorities (the Financial Regulatory Authority),in addition to professional bodies (such as the Egyptian SecuritiesAssociation) as an annual award in the field of sustainability among companieslisted on the Egyptian Stock Exchange.

Suggested Citation:

Dabour, Israa, The Impact of Sustainability Reports on Improving the Accuracy of Financial Predictions in the Egyptian Business Environment: An Applied Study (October 03, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4880430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4880430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Aboud , A Diab
The Impact of Social, Environmental and Corporate Governance Disclosures on Firm Value: Evidence from Egypt
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 8 , p. 442 - 458 Posted: 2018
C A Adams , A Alhamood , X He , J Tian , L Wang , Y Wang , C Adams
The Development and Implementation of GRI Standards: Practice and Policy Issues
Handbook of Accounting and Sustainability , p. 26 - 43 Posted: 2022
J C Anderson , A W Frankle
Voluntary Social Reporting: An Iso-β Portfolio Analysis
Accounting Review , volume 55 , p. 467 - 479 Posted: 1980
A Belkaoui
The Impact of the Disclosure of the Environmental Effects of Organizational Behavior on the Market
Financial Management , volume 5 , p. 26 - 31 Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
196
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies