Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contemporary Insights on Corporate Guidance: A discussion of Call, Hribar, Skinner, and Volant (2024)

22 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2024

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: June 28, 2024

Abstract

Guidance is an important and long-studied topic in the accounting literature. Call, Hribar, Skinner, and Volant (this issue) survey managers who provide guidance and those that do not to generate insights on the costs and benefits of providing guidance. For managers who do provide guidance, perceptions regarding guidance characteristics are elicited. Firm responses are connected to archival data sources, enabling cross-sectional analysis of survey responses and facilitating comparison of self-reported guidance with common guidance proxies in the archival literature. I discuss key insights from the survey, considering the limitations inherent in the survey method. I also clarify what is meant by the term guidance, how it differs from other forward-looking information and how researchers operationalize the guidance construct. I conclude by offering six research questions for future consideration based on the survey evidence.

Keywords: Management Guidance, Forward-Looking Information, Survey Methods, Voluntary Disclosure JEL classifications: M41, C90

Suggested Citation:

Mayew, William J., Contemporary Insights on Corporate Guidance: A discussion of Call, Hribar, Skinner, and Volant (2024) (June 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4880084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4880084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Bae , G Biddle , C W Park
Managerial learning from analyst feedback to voluntary CAPEX guidance, investment efficiency, and firm performance
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 583 - 607 Posted: 2022
K Bochkay , S V Brown , A Leone , J W Tucker
Textual Analysis in Accounting: What's Next? Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 765 - 805 Posted: 2023
Z Bozanic , D T Roulstone , A Van Buskirk
Management earnings forecasts and other forward-looking statements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2018
P Bromiley , J D Harris
A comparison of alternative measures of organization aspirations
Strategic Management Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 338 - 357 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
405,251
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies