Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Audit and CSR Committees in ESG Controversies: Evidence from European Top Multinational Firms

13 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2024

Jose Maria Diez Esteban

University of Burgos

David Blanco

University of Burgos - Department of Economics

JULIETA DIEZ-HERNÁNDEZ

affiliation not provided to SSRN

CRISTINA SIERRA-CALVO

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In this paper we analyse the influence of CSR and Audit Committee on controversies happening in top European firms. Using the STOXX Europe 600 index, for European firms between 2013 and 2023, we find that a better ESG score of the company reduces the scandals. And moreover, we evidence that a higher percentage of independent and expert members in Audit committees and a presence of a CSR Committee related with a more effective reporting contributes to reducing firms’ environmental scandals.

Keywords: CSR Committee, Audit Committee, board independence, Controversies

Suggested Citation:

Diez Esteban, Jose Maria and Blanco, David and DIEZ-HERNÁNDEZ, JULIETA and SIERRA-CALVO, CRISTINA, The Influence of Audit and CSR Committees in ESG Controversies: Evidence from European Top Multinational Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4881389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4881389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
P References Agnese , M Cerciello , R Oriani , S Taddeo
ESG controversies and profitability in the European banking sector
Finance Research Letters , issue 61 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2024
P Agnese , F Battaglia , C Busato , Taddeo S
ESG controversies and governance: Evidence from the banking industry
Finance Research Letters , issue 53 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2023
R Blundell , S Bond , F Windmeijer
Estimation in dynamic panel data models: improving on the performance of the standard GMM estimator
Nonstationary Panels, Panel Cointegration, and Dynamic Panels , p. 53 - 92 Posted: 2000
M Arellano
Sargan's instrumental variables estimation and the generalized method of moments
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 450 - 459 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
RANK
534,717
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies