Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandated CSR Expenditure Reduce Dividend Payouts? -Evidence from a Unique Context

28 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2024

Asit Bhattacharyya

CQ University Australia

Divyam Jain

Indian Institute of Management Kashipur

Ashish Kumar

Indian Institute of Management Kashipur

Abstract

Our study investigates the impact of mandated corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure on willingness to pay dividends and dividend payments in a unique context (mandatory CSR spending). India is the pioneering nation to enforce compulsory CSR spending in specified areas. To examine the relation, we utilise a 5651 firm-year observations dataset. We employ a triple interaction difference-in-difference framework to analyse this relationship, which includes fixed effects for both year and sector. In addition, we generate a propensity score matched sample to enhance comparability between groups and the reliability of results. We find a positive association of CSR expenditure with a propensity to pay dividends and dividend payments in treatment firms during the post-mandatory period suggesting that mandatory CSR spending is linked to higher dividend payouts across all three dividend payout measures. We also find that last year’s CSR spending positively impacts the firm’s current year dividend payouts. Our results have important positive mandated CSR expenditure policy implications because they indicate clear benefits for shareholders and stakeholders.

Keywords: Mandated CSR, Dividend payouts, CSR Expenditure, Quasi-Natural Experiment.

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharyya, Asit and Jain, Divyam and Kumar, Ashish, Does Mandated CSR Expenditure Reduce Dividend Payouts? -Evidence from a Unique Context. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4882593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4882593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M Benlemlih
Corporate social responsibility and dividend policy
International Business and Finance , volume 47 , p. 114 - 138 Posted: 2019
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect Information, Dividend Policy, and
Fallacy. The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 1979
A Bhattacharyya
The Impact of Mandated Corporate Social Responsibility Legislation on CSR Disclosures: Unique Evidence From Section 135 of Indian Companies Act Posted: 2013
A Bhattacharyya , M L Rahman
Mandatory CSR expenditure and firm performance
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 15 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
328
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies