Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of Internal Control and Internal Audit and Their Influence on The Business Performance of Small and Medium Enterprises

11 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2024

Lara Erika Peroy

Holy Trinity College

Suad Balating

Holy Trinity College

Cherry Mae Bayang

Holy Trinity College

Jonnel Glodove

Holy Trinity College

Ailyn Mindog

Holy Trinity College

Cliff Kirl Lubon

Holy Trinity College

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

This quantitative study determined the level of effectiveness of internal control and internal audit as well as its relationship to business performance and examined their influence on Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). It employed a quantitative-descriptive and cross-sectional research design. The respondents of the study were the accountants or the employees of 21 SMEs within the vicinity of General Santos City, Philippines. The respondents must be employed by the businesses that they work with and have performed at least one internal audit within the entity and must have knowledge in internal controls as well as internal audit. Random sampling and adapted-modified research survey questionnaires were used to identify the respondent's level of effectiveness of internal control and internal audit and their influence to the business performance of the SMEs. The data gathered were treated using mean, Pearson's Correlation Coefficient, and multiple regression. Moreover, the results of the study showed that the level of effectiveness of internal control and internal audit and the business performance of the SMEs were considered high with the overall mean of 4.19, 4.32, and 3.97, respectively. Hence, it is recommended to use this study as a basis to identify any potential issues to enhance and strengthen the level of effectiveness of internal control and internal audit and their influence on the SMEs' business performance.

Keywords: internal control, internal audit, business performance, quantitative research

Suggested Citation:

Peroy, Lara Erika and Balating, Suad and Bayang, Cherry Mae and Glodove, Jonnel and Mindog, Ailyn and Lubon, Cliff Kirl, The Effectiveness of Internal Control and Internal Audit and Their Influence on The Business Performance of Small and Medium Enterprises (December 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4882585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
K A Akmese , A Ilgaz
Efficiency of internal control systems and the effect of organizational structure and culture on internal control systems in accommodation industry
University of south florida (usf) m3 publishing , volume 5 Posted: 2021
S Beaver
Operating expenses defined: A business guide Posted: 2022
Borsalli
Internal controls: How to ensure effectiveness Posted: 2022
T Canare , J P Francisco , N A Price
An empirical analysis of SME and large business linkages: Evidence from the philippines. RSN-PCC working paper , p. 17 - 17 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,437
RANK
182,421
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies