Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Blockholder, Exit Threats, and Firms CSR Performance

41 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2024

XINGZI REN

Durham University, Business School, Department of Economics and Finance, Students

Zelin Xu

School of Economics and Management, Fuzhou University

Chengyao Lei

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This research examines the role of blockholders in shaping corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices within A-share listed companies in China over the period of 2006 to 2019. Our analysis reveals that non-financial blockholders significantly promote CSR initiatives, while the influence of financial blockholders appears negligible. The study also uncovers the pivotal role of stock liquidity as a moderator in the dynamic between blockholders and CSR, suggesting that the exit threat is provital mechanism through which non-financial blockholders exert their influence on CSR activities. These findings are robust, having addressed potential endogeneity issues through a series of rigorous methodologies including the examination of exogenous shocks, the application of the Propensity Score Matching-Difference in Differences (PSM-DID) model, deployment of multi-dimensional fixed effects models, and Change Regression analysis.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Blockholder, Exit Threats

Suggested Citation:

REN, XINGZI and Xu, Zln and Lei, Chengyao, Institutional Blockholder, Exit Threats, and Firms CSR Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4882555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4882555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
G Aminadav , E Papaioannou
Corporate control around the world
The Journal of finance , volume 75 , p. 1191 - 1246 Posted: 2020
M Becht , J Franks , C Mayer , S Rossi
Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence from a clinical study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3093 - 3129 Posted: 2009
S T Bharath , S Jayaraman , V Nagar
Exit as governance: An empirical analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 2515 - 2547 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
285
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies