Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Divestment and the Insolvency Risk: Evidence from Nordic Firms

45 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2024

Arshed Iqbal

University of Vaasa

Jamshed Iqbal

University of Jyväskylä - University of Jyväskylä School of Business and Economics

Arto Ojala

University of Vaasa

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between the foreign divestment and insolvency risk of parent firms, by using a large sample of Nordic firms over the period from 1992 to 2019. By integrating resource-based view theory (RBV) with foreign divestment literature, we examine how the insolvency risk of parent firms is influenced by the foreign divestment due to the loss of valuable resources. Our study employs both traditional, Merton’s distance to default measure, and innovative credit default swap (CDS) spread, to proxy insolvency risk of the parent firms. We document a positive relationship between foreign divestment and insolvency risk of firms. We further argue that the relationship between foreign divestment and insolvency risk is moderated by the level of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities performed by the parent firms.

Keywords: Foreign divestment, Insolvency risk, RBV, csr, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Iqbal, Arshed and Iqbal, Jamshed and Ojala, Arto, Foreign Divestment and the Insolvency Risk: Evidence from Nordic Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4882554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4882554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
223 References
A S Abu Bakar , R Ameer
Readability of corporate social responsibility communication in Malaysia
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 60 Posted: 2011
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of management review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
G Ahuja , R Katila
Where do resources come from? The role of idiosyncratic situations
Strategic Management Journal , volume 25 , p. 887 - 907 Posted: 2004
A Akbar , M Akbar , W Tang , M A Qureshi
Is bankruptcy risk tied to corporate life cycle? Evidence from Pakistan
Sustainability , volume 11 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
223 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies