Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Risk-Shifting in Corporate Pension Plans: Evidence from Stakeholder Constituency Statutes

Journal of Accounting and Economics, 2024 [10.1016/j.jacceco.2024.101704]

55 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024

Amy Garman

Kansas State University - Department of Accounting

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: June 11, 2024

Abstract

We use staggered enactments of state stakeholder constituency laws as a natural experiment to examine the effect of such laws on corporate pension risk shifting. Our analysis encompasses three components of pension risk shifting: funding risk, investment risk, and benefit risk. We observe a reduction in all three elements of pension risk shifting following the enactment of stakeholder orientation laws that promote greater consideration of stakeholder interests. We also find that the post-enactment reduction in pension risk-shifting is greater for firms with fewer investment opportunities. Overall, our results provide insight into how stakeholder constituency can mitigate an important form of risk-shifting. *Corresponding author We gratefully acknowledge helpful comments from Michelle Hanlon (editor), an anonymous reviewer, Tom Omer, John Robinson, workshop participants at the University of Kansas and conversations with professionals at the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. We also gratefully acknowledge financial support from the University of Kansas, Kansas State University, and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Keywords: agency theory, defined benefit pensions, manager-employee conflicts, pensions, stakeholder constituency statutes, state law, risk shifting JEL classification: M14, M41

Funder Statement

The University of Nebraska - Lincoln Kansas State University The University of Kansas

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Garman, Amy and Kubick, Thomas R., Mitigating Risk-Shifting in Corporate Pension Plans: Evidence from Stakeholder Constituency Statutes (June 11, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, 2024 [10.1016/j.jacceco.2024.101704], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4883345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
473
RANK
724,439
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies