Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact on ESG Performance of the Transition from Voluntary to Mandatory ESG Reporting

32 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2024

Zhi Kai Chang

Swinburne University of Technology

Christine Jubb

Swinburne University of Technology

Dina Lahanis

Swinburne University of Technology

Abstract

This study examines whether the transition from voluntary to mandatory environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting affects corporate ESG performance.  The research covers a six-year period for companies from Hong Kong, Malaysia, France, and China, consisting of three years before an ESG reporting mandate and three years following its implementation. The results suggest that mandating ESG reporting might effectively impact ESG performance only if ESG reporting rates were low prior to regulation. However, it is not straightforward to increase ESG performance with mandates alone. The findings also suggest that mandates accompanied by disclosure requirements and deterrent mechanisms are more effective in increasing ESG performance. Additionally, there is a difference in the impact of an ESG mandate on good and poor ESG reporters. We find that good ESG reporters were not affected by mandating ESG reporting; however, in contrast, the ESG performance of poor ESG reporters increased after the mandate.

Keywords: ESG performance, mandatory ESG reporting, sustainability, good and poor ESG performers, hard and soft ESG scores, CSR.

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Zhi Kai and Jubb, Christine and Lahanis, Dina, The Impact on ESG Performance of the Transition from Voluntary to Mandatory ESG Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4884935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4884935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
A Bergmann , P Posch
Mandatory sustainability reporting in germany: does size matter? Sustainability , volume 10 Posted: 2018
Y.-C Chen , M Hung , Y Wang
The effect of mandatory CSR disclosure on firm profitability and social externalities: Evidence from China
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2018
C H Cho , D M Patten
The role of environmental disclosures as tools of legitimacy: A research note , volume 32 , p. 639 - 647 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
407,330
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies