Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling the Impact of External Uncertainty on Corporate Investment Decisions: Heterogeneity Characteristics and Channel Mechanism

29 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2024

Hailing Li

Central South University

Tianqi Liu

Xiamen National Accounting Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study initiates by conducting a theoretical comparative analysis of the impact mechanisms of Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU), Trade Policy Uncertainty (TPU), Government Policy Risk (GPR), and Climate Policy Uncertainty (CPU) on corporate investment decisions. Subsequently, we empirically test these mechanisms using experiential data from Chinese listed companies spanning from 2013 to 2022. Building on this foundation, we conduct a more thorough analysis to investigate whether different types of external uncertainties exhibit significant differences in their impact and dynamic effects on corporate investment decisions across various dimensions, including ownership structures, investment types, and industry sectors. The findings reveal several key insights: (1) All four types of external uncertainty hinder corporate investment, with EPU demonstrating the strongest effect and TPU the weakest. (2) EPU and GPR impede fixed and financial asset investments while promoting R&D investment. TPU increases fixed and financial asset investments but suppresses R&D investment, whereas CPU hinders all three types of corporate investments. (3) The differential impact of TPU and CPU on corporate investments in different industries and with varying ownership structures is more pronounced than that of EPU and GPR. (4) Uncertainties influence corporate investment through financing constraints and external demand, with enterprise growth opportunities serving to mitigate the uncertainty-investment relationship.

Keywords: Corporate investment, uncertainty, financing constraint, external demand, corporate growth opportunity

Suggested Citation:

Li, Hailing and Liu, Tianqi, Unraveling the Impact of External Uncertainty on Corporate Investment Decisions: Heterogeneity Characteristics and Channel Mechanism. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4884934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4884934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2005
S A Al-Thaqeb , B G Algharabali , K T Alabdulghafour
The pandemic and economic policy uncertainty
International Journal of Finance & Economics , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 2784 - 2794 Posted: 2022
Q Nguyen , H T Kim
An exploration on policy uncertainty as a driver of R&D activity
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 64 Posted: 2023
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
264
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies