Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
User Anonymity and Information Quality of Social Media: Evidence from a Natural Experiment

51 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Kanyuan (Kevin) Huang

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Tianyu Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: July 05, 2023

Abstract

We examine how removing user anonymity affects the quality of information on investmentrelated social media platforms. Using a difference-indifferences research design that exploits the differential timing of adopting real-name verification policies by the two most popular investmentrelated platforms in China, we find that the information quality of the treatment platform significantly improves after the implementation of the policy. This result is primarily driven by users who post more actively in the pre-period. These users become less active in the post-period but the content of their postings become more informative, indicating that the verification policy encourages them to be more prudent in expressing opinions. Additionally, our results are more pronounced in firms that tend to attract the attention of retail investors. Our study suggests that real-name verification policies can have disciplinary effects on internet users, improving the information quality on investment-related social media.

Keywords: social media, user anonymity, real-name verification, wisdom of crowds, retail investor, earnings announcements User Anonymity and Information Quality of Social Media: Evidence from a Natural Experiment JEL classification: G14, G41, M41 Keywords: social media, user anonymity, real-name verification, wisdom of crowds, retail investor, earnings announcements

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Kanyuan and Wang, Yakun and Wong, T.J. and Zhang, Tianyu, User Anonymity and Information Quality of Social Media: Evidence from a Natural Experiment (July 05, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4885972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4885972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
C Aghamolla , R T Thakor
Do mandatory disclosure requirements for private firms increase the propensity of going public
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 804 Posted: 2022
W Antweiler , Z F Murray
Is all that talk just noise? The information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
P Ball , A Maxmen
The epic battle against coronavirus misinformation and conspiracy theories
Nature , volume 581 , issue 7809 , p. 371 - 375 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Yi Li , Wei Zhang , Pengfei Wang , John W. Goodell
Social media as an amplifier of insider trading profits
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 96 , p. 102059 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
197,604
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies