Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Corporate Social Responsibility in Affecting Operational Efficiency: Evidence from China

47 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2024

Xinrui Zhan

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Xinru Ma

Sichuan University

Jingbin He

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Finance

Abstract

This study delves into the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and operational efficiency. By examining a sample of publicly traded Chinese firms, we find that firms with higher CSR performance are associated with higher operational efficiency. This relationship remains robust after we employ an instrumental variable approach using local CSR intensity as a proxy. Additionally, our cross-sectional analyses suggest that the association between CSR performance and operational efficiency becomes stronger for firms with better financial conditions, fewer uncertainties related to litigation, information, and suppliers, and more intense industry competition. Our findings are consistent with alternative model specifications. Overall, our study provides evidence to highlight the positive role of CSR engagement regarding operational efficiency, which is meaningful for firms seeking operational efficiency improvement.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, operational efficiency, financial condition, Uncertainty, industry competition

Suggested Citation:

Zhan, Xinrui and Ma, Xinru and He, Jingbin, The Role of Corporate Social Responsibility in Affecting Operational Efficiency: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4887441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4887441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
K S Bardos , M Ertugrul , L S Gao
Corporate social responsibility, product market perception, and firm value
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
O E Barron , M H Stanford , Y Yu
Further Evidence on the Relation between Analysts' Forecast Dispersion and Stock Returns*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 329 - 357 Posted: 2009
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why Do U.S. Firms Hold So Much More Cash than They Used To?
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
765,896
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies