Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Monitoring and Investigations: Signaling from Short-selling

45 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Anh Tran

Bucknell University

Silver Chung

Sejong University - School of Business

Date Written: September 19, 2023

Abstract

Prior research finds that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) faces resource constraints that can hinder its enforcement effectiveness. This study investigates whether the SEC uses short-sales transaction information to enhance its oversight and investigation of financial misconduct. Our findings reveal that the SEC is 60% more likely to monitor the regulatory filings of firms with high levels of and changes in short interest. Further tests show that the relation between SEC monitoring and short-selling signals is more pronounced when SEC offices have high case backlogs or firms' external monitoring (i.e., media attention) declines. Lastly, we find that the SEC is more likely to initiate formal investigations for firms with high levels and changes of short interest, and such heightened short-selling activities are associated with higher monetary penalties. Collectively, our evidence suggests that short sellers provide valuable information for the SEC in detecting and investigating financial misconduct.

Keywords: SEC monitoring, SEC investigation, short-selling

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Anh and Chung, Silver, SEC Monitoring and Investigations: Signaling from Short-selling (September 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4888487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
472,791
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies