Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statements vs. FinTech: A Discussion of Minnis, Sutherland, and Vetter

24 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Date Written: July 07, 2024

Abstract

Minnis, Sutherland, and Vetter (MSV) documents a sharp decline in lenders' collection of attested financial statements (including unqualified audits, reviews, and compilations) over the period 2002 to 2017. They attribute this change to lenders adopting new technology and new non-bank lenders entering the lending market. In this discussion, I explore several dimensions of their findings. First, I provide a framework for usefulness of financial statement information in debt contracting. Using this framework, I consider how financial statements may be useful for the small and medium loans the authors study, and how this role could be disrupted. Second, I consider how financial technology (FinTech) has disrupted traditional lending and potentially changed the role of financial statements. Finally, I consider the implications for this change on the accounting profession.

Keywords: financial statements, FinTech, audit, bank lending, SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R., Financial Statements vs. FinTech: A Discussion of Minnis, Sutherland, and Vetter (July 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4888759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Jeffery Piao , Philip Wang , Diana Weng
U.S. Banks' Artificial Intelligence and Small Business Lending: Evidence from the Census Bureau's Technology Survey
48 Pages · Posted: 10 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 297
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
422,747
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies