Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the Stock Market Capitalize R&D Expenditures?* (*When Firms Aren't Mandated to)

46 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2024

Han Seong Ryu

Hongik University

Paul A. Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: July 08, 2024

Abstract

We examine the UK stock market’s valuation of firms’ R&D expenditures around the time of the switch from UK GAAP to IFRS in 2006. Under both regimes, research expenditures and development expenditures that did not meet capitalization conditions must be expensed. Under UK GAAP, firms had the option to expense or capitalize development expenditures that met capitalization conditions. Thus, there were mandatory expensers (who did not have capitalization-eligible R&D expenditures), and voluntary expensers (who had capitalization-eligible R&D expenditures, but chose to expense them). The distinction between the different expenditures is important, because as theory predicts and as we show, capitalization-eligible R&D expenditures have a higher market valuation than ineligible expenditures. Under IFRS, such eligible expenditures must be capitalized, so voluntary expensers were required to reveal their type. We find that under UK GAAP, the UK stock market valued the R&D expenditures of both mandatory and voluntary expensers equally; R&D of voluntary expensers was valued more highly only under IFRS. Thus, without mandatory capitalization revealing firms’ types, the market was not able to properly value firms’ R&D expenditures.

Keywords: capitalization, expensing

Suggested Citation:

Ryu, Han Seong and Zarowin, Paul A., Can the Stock Market Capitalize R&D Expenditures?* (*When Firms Aren't Mandated to) (July 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4888485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
David Aboody , Baruch Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Acharya , V Viral , K Rangarajan , Kose Sundaram , John
Cross-country Variations in Capital Structures: The Role of Bankruptcy Codes
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 54 Posted: 2011
Franklin Allen , Elena Carletti , Robert Marquez
Stakeholder Capitalism, Corporate Governance and Firm Value
EFA 2007 Ljubljana Meetings Paper; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) -Finance Working Paper Posted: 2007
Eli Amir , Baruch Lev , Theodore Sougiannis
Do Financial Analysts Get Intangibles?
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 659 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
382,931
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies