Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Founder-CEOs' Vocal Attractiveness on Information Processing of Individual Investors

Posted: 5 Aug 2024

Nusrat Farah

Southern Illinois University - Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Sharif Islam

Southern Illinois University - Southern Illinois University at Carbondale

Date Written: July 08, 2024

Abstract

Founder-CEOs often need to indulge in persuasive communications and negotiations. In this research, we investigate whether and how vocal attractiveness of founder-CEOs impacts individual investors' information retention and investment decisions in the context of persuasive managerial communication. As founder-CEOs attempt to persuade investors to support their new ventures, it is critical to identify factors that lead to continued discussion with investors and funding success. Therefore, the study seeks to answer the question whether vocally attractive founder-CEOs are more persuasive and perform better in negotiations than vocally unattractive founder-CEOs. We find that vocal attractiveness has a significant positive effect on venture attraction and investment decisions. In addition, attractive voices make information retention easier than unattractive voices. Investors are more likely to retain more information from persuasive communications and to invest in the venture when founder-CEOs communicate in an attractive voice than unattractive voice. We also find that attractive voices are easier to process and evoke positive affect, which in turn lead to increased information retention and venture attraction. In addition, we find that the effect of vocal attractiveness on processing fluency and positive affect depends on whether investors' expectations regarding the founder-CEOs' voice are negatively or positively violated. The results suggest that the indirect effect of processing fluency and positive affect on venture attraction and information retention is indeed moderated by expectancy violations. Moreover, negative violations of expectations regarding the founder-CEOs' voice cues can lead to lower processing fluency and lower positive affect, which ultimately result in decreased information retention and venture attraction. Our theoretical perspective and empirical findings offer significant contributions to knowledge about vocal attractiveness in the context of persuasive communications for startups.

Suggested Citation:

Farah, Nusrat, Impact of Founder-CEOs' Vocal Attractiveness on Information Processing of Individual Investors (July 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888600
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies