Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Perceived Cost of Capital

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-78

82 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2024

Niels Joachim Gormsen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Kilian Huber

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: July 8, 2024

Abstract

We study hand-collected data on firms’ perceptions of their cost of capital. Firms with higher perceived cost of capital earn higher returns on invested capital and invest less, suggesting that the perceived cost of capital shapes long-run capital allocation. The perceived cost of capital is partially related to the true cost of capital, which is determined by risk premia and interest rates, but there are also large deviations between the perceived and true cost of capital. Only 20% of the variation in the perceived cost of capital is justified by variation in the true cost of capital. The remaining 80% reflects deviations that are consistent with managers making mistakes. These deviations lead to misallocation of capital that lowers long-run aggregate productivity by 5% in a benchmark model. Forcing all firms to apply the same cost of capital would improve the allocation of capital relative to current corporate practice. The deviations in the perceived cost of capital challenge standard models, in particular the production-based asset pricing paradigm, and lead us to reject the “Investment CAPM.” We describe actionable methods that allow firms to improve their perceptions and capital allocation.

JEL Classification: E44,G1,G3,G4,O47

Suggested Citation:

Gormsen, Niels Joachim and Huber, Kilian, Firms' Perceived Cost of Capital (July 8, 2024). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4888476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Y Benjamini , Y Hochberg
Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing
Journal of the Royal statistical society: series B (Methodological) , volume 57 , p. 289 - 300 Posted: 1995
C Broda , D E Weinstein
Globalization and the Gains from Variety
The Quarterly journal of economics , volume 121 , p. 541 - 585 Posted: 2006
J Y Campbell
Understanding Risk and Return
Journal of Political Economy , volume 104 , p. 298 - 345 Posted: 1996
J Y Campbell , R J Shiller
Stock Prices, Earnings, and Expected Dividends
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 661 - 676 Posted: 1988
Load more
1 Citations
Maher Naji Ali , Ghazwan Ayad Khalid Al-Shiblawi , Asaad Wahhab , Karrar Saleem Hameedi
THE MEDIATING ROLE OF EARNINGS MANAGEMENT IN THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE FIRM LIFE CYCLE AND THE COST OF EQUITY: EVIDENCE FROM BANKS IN IRAQ
Financial and credit activity problems of theory and practice , volume 5 , issue 58 , p. 75 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
279,521
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies