Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Switching to Semi-annual Financial Statement Reports -Market Reaction, Audit Fee and Corporate Governance Quality

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Keren Bar-Hava

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

The aim of the research is to examine the reaction of market participants (investors and firms) to a regulatory exogenous shock of easing financial reporting statement regulations. Since 2017, small cap firms, publicly traded on Tel-Aviv stock exchange, are required to publish only Semi-annual reports hence any firm may opt to switch from formerly mandatory quarterly reporting to the currently required semi-annual financial reporting statement. We show that 2/3 of the firms chose to adopt the relief in regulation. In the group of firms that chose to apply the regulation relief, we find a significant negative abnormal market reaction of-2% to the announcement of adopting the relief. In the group of firms that waive the regulation relief and chose to stay on quarterly reporting, we observe a significant positive abnormal market reaction of +2.5% to the announcement of voluntary continuing with the quarterly financial reports. Moreover, for the firms that switch to semi-annual reports, we show a significant decrease of 19.8% in the number of external auditing hours and a significant decrease of 16% in the annual external total audit fee in 2017 as compared to 2016. No significant change in the annual external total audit fee has been observed for the firms that opted not to adopt the abovementioned regulation. We also collect additional information about institutional investor holdings and outside directors which serves on these boards (financial expertise, gender and "busyness") as signals to corporate governance quality. We find positive and significant associations between the voluntarily continue the quarterly financial reporting and high quality corporate governance. The findings of the event study provide a valuable contribution to the ongoing debate on the relevance of the quarterly financial reports to investors. The additional finding of lower corporate governance quality and decreased external audit effort which characterized the firms that adopt the relief represent an increased risk for information asymmetry for investors in such firms thus further reinforces the importance of frequent financial reporting.

Keywords: Financial Reports, Relevance, Market Reaction, Corporate Governance, Audit Fee, Semi-annual, Quarterly

Suggested Citation:

Bar-Hava, Keren, Switching to Semi-annual Financial Statement Reports -Market Reaction, Audit Fee and Corporate Governance Quality (October 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4889438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4889438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
649
RANK
564,093
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies