Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandating Corporate Social and Environmental Disclosure Improve Social and Environmental Performance?: Broad-based Evidence Regarding the Effectiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming. DOI: 10.1016/j.bar.2024.101437.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

37 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Federica Farneti

University of Bologna

Jing Jia

University of Newcastle

Zhongtian Li

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Date Written: July 09, 2024

Abstract

Given that the aim of corporate social and environmental disclosure mandates is to improve corporate social and environmental performance, this study investigates the impact of such mandates on performance. Using a difference-indifferences analysis, we examine trends in corporate social and environmental performance before and after the introduction of Directive 2014/95/EU (hereafter, the Directive), comparing affected European companies with companies in the United States (US), based on a balanced sample of 358 European companies (excluding United Kingdom (UK) companies, because they were subject to additional regulations that came into effect around the same time) and 470 US companies from 2009-2020. We find that European companies' performance has not improved substantially since the Directive came into effect in 2017, nor have they improved compared to US companies. Thus, the evidence suggests that the Directive has not improved European companies' social and environmental performance. Our study provides broad-based evidence of the (in)effectiveness of mandating corporate social and environmental disclosures to enhance performance. Our findings will be of interest to regulators considering disclosure mandates, as well as stakeholders and investors interested in enhancing social and environmental performance.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, CSR, Corporate sustainability, Directive 2014/95/EU, Social and environmental performance, Mandatory non-financial disclosure

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Dumay, John and Farneti, Federica and Jia, Jing and Li, Zhongtian, Does Mandating Corporate Social and Environmental Disclosure Improve Social and Environmental Performance?: Broad-based Evidence Regarding the Effectiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU (July 09, 2024).

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming. DOI: 10.1016/j.bar.2024.101437.

, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4889566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4889566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
592,557
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies