Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Dividend Policy on Earnings Management: Does Climate Risk Matter?

56 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2024

Bola Babajide

De Montfort University

Samuel Fosu

University of Sussex

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Using climate risk as an exogenous shock to firms’ operating activities and cash flows and a sample of 12,240 US firms over the period 1991 to 2022, we examine the impact of dividend on earnings management. We uncover three main findings. First, dividend is associated with lower earnings management. This effect is restricted to and more pronounced in firms that have lower climate risk exposure consistent with the agency theory of free cash flow. Second, when climate risk is high, dividend increases earnings management consistent with the signalling theory. Third, the main and joint effects of both dividend and climate risk on earnings management are restricted to firms that are less geographically diversified. Further analysis suggests that firms facing high climate risk exposure have a relatively higher operational uncertainty compared to their counterparts with lower exposure to climate risk. Overall, our results suggest that dividend may serve as a credible device to mitigate earnings management but only when the risk of exogenous shocks to cash flow is low.

Keywords: Dividend Pay-out, Climate risk, Earnings management, Geographic diversity, Financial uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Babajide, Bola and Fosu, Samuel, The Impact of Dividend Policy on Earnings Management: Does Climate Risk Matter?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4889949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4889949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
C Adrian , M Garg , A V Pham , S Y Phang , C Truong
Do natural disasters affect corporate tax avoidance? The case of drought
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 186 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 135 Posted: 2023
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
L Alessi , E Ossola , R Panzica
What greenium matters in the stock market? The role of greenhouse gas emissions and environmental disclosures
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 54 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Mohamed Samy El-Deeb , Lana Mohamed
The moderating role of board gender diversity on the association between audit committee attributes and integrated reporting quality
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies