Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Impact of Budgeting: Pathologies of Habermasian Colonization and Enabling Accounting

39 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2024

Stuart Green

University of Durham

Abstract

This paper considers the impact of budgeting on organizational micro-practices.  These effects are examined via a more immediate relation to Habermasian accounting colonization than is typical in most of the existing literature.  This more immediate relation to Habermas, alongside a conceptual framing provided by Habermas’s psychopathologies of colonization, generates deep insights into accounting disturbances and their effects.  Empirical detail was collected from two secondary schools in England using 16 semi-structured interviews, observation and documentary evidence.   The findings illuminate the impact of budgeting and the influence of organizational context on change.  Budgeting and budgetary control can influence individuals in ways that reflect Habermas’s psychopathologies, with exogenous and constitutive-transactional accounting disturbances having the greatest impact on organizational micro-practices.  Behavioural responses to accounting disturbances can be ambiguous, subtle and transitory; they can also include dimensions that are potentially enabling.  Notwithstanding the enabling possibilities of accounting, budgeting and budgetary control might have effects that are contrary to the aims of controllers.

Keywords: Accounting colonization, Habermas, organizational micro-practices, enabling accounting

Suggested Citation:

Green, Stuart, Understanding the Impact of Budgeting: Pathologies of Habermasian Colonization and Enabling Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4889950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4889950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
S Abhayawansa , M Aleksanyan , S Cuganesan
Conceptualisation of intellectual capital in analysts' narratives: a performative view
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 950 - 969 Posted: 2018
Academies Act
HMSO Posted: 2010
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
T Ahrens , L Ferry , R Khalifa
The hybridising of financial and service expertise in English local authority budget control: A practice perspective
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 357 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
126
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies