Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of Power: Balancing Growth and Profitability in China's Politically Connected Firms

30 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024

Longzhu Dong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Robert Stephens

Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania

XIAOYU YANG

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of political connections and firm ownership on the relationship between strategic change and firm performance in China. Drawing on a panel dataset of Chinese industrial firms, we examine how membership in the National People's Congress influences the pursuit of market share and profitability following strategic change initiatives. We find that the effect of strategic change on market share and profitability varies depending on a firm's ownership type and political connections. State-owned enterprises with NPC membership prioritize market share over profitability. Private firms, even those with political ties, face pressure to balance growth and profits.

Keywords: Political connections, Strategic change, firm performance, firm ownership

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Longzhu and Stephens, Robert and YANG, XIAOYU, The Price of Power: Balancing Growth and Profitability in China's Politically Connected Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4890451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
P Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close congressional elections
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
D Ahlstrom , M N Young , A Nair , P Law
Managing the institutional environment: Challenges for foreign firms in post WTO China
SAM Advanced Management Journal , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 41 - 49 Posted: 2004
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
W J Baumol
Business behavior, value and growth Posted: 1959
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies