Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Innovating Risky? The Effects of R&D on Idiosyncratic and Systematic Firm Risk 

49 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Jaeho Yoo

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Date Written: April 06, 2024

Abstract

Prior research documents conflicting evidence that R&D investment both increases and decreases firm financial risk. We propose a parsimonious framework that explains this conflicting evidence. Initially, investing in innovation primarily creates idiosyncratic risk because whether a scientist successfully creates a novel innovation is unpredictable but does not depend on market fluctuations. However, the idiosyncratic risk of innovation investments becomes systematic over commercialization horizons because firms best commercialize nonrival innovations broadly, exposing them to systematic risk. Using state R&D tax credits as sources of plausibly exogenous variation in R&D investment and a new measure of the horizon of innovation based on the delay between changes in R&D spending and subsequent patent filings, we document findings consistent with the framework’s predictions. Overall, we validate the long-standing assumption that R&D increases firm risk and further demonstrate that the risk of innovation evolves from idiosyncratic to systematic over time. Furthermore, the average horizon of R&D is about three years, considerably longer than assumed in many prior studies.

Keywords: Innovation, risk, R&D tax credits, investment, green innovation JEL classification: O31, O38, H25

JEL Classification: O31, O38, H25

Suggested Citation:

Glaeser, Stephen and Yoo, Jaeho, Is Innovating Risky? The Effects of R&D on Idiosyncratic and Systematic Firm Risk  (April 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4890351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Philippe Aghion , Jean Tirole
The management of innovation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , p. 1185 - 1209 Posted: 1994
Mustafa Ahci
Less is more: Peer learning from nondisclosures, Available at SSRN 4792479 Posted: 2024
Mustafa Ahci , Philip Joos
Text-based innovation measure and firm performance , volume 4797745 Posted: 2023
Ufuk Akcigit , John Grigsby , Tom Nicholas , Stefanie Stantcheva
Taxation and innovation in the twentieth century
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , p. 329 - 385 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
192,137
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies