Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good News Dividend Decreases

25 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2024

Yinfei Chen

Central Connecticut State University

Wei Huang

University of Minnesota Duluth

Chang Liu

California State University, Sacramento

Donna L. Paul

Washington State University

Date Written: September 09, 2024

Abstract

We investigate why some dividend cut announcements are associated with positive abnormal stock returns. We define such events as good news dividend decreases and hypothesize that market participants sort among firms based on whether or not there is need for additional cash to fund value-increasing investments. Results show that good news firms have more ex-ante growth opportunities and greater ex-post growth in capital expenditures, assets, employees, R&D, and profitability compared to their counterparts with negative returns around the dividend cut announcement. They are also more likely to restore the dividend in the following four years. Thus, while dividend decreases typically signal bad news about a firm’s future cash flows, we show that they are not all created equal, and that a temporary cut to exploit investment opportunities can be good news.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, dividend decrease, investment opportunities

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yinfei and Huang, Wei and Liu, Chang and Paul, Donna L., Good News Dividend Decreases (September 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4891236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4891236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly Dividend and Earnings Announcements and Stockholders' Returns: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Finance , volume 35 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
R Ambrish , K John , J Williams
Efficient Signalling with Dividends and Investments
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1987
S Bhattacharya
Imperfect information, dividend policy, and the 'bird in the hand' fallacy
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 270 Posted: 1979
A Brav , J R Graham , C R Harvey , R Michaely
Payout policy in the 21st century
Journal o Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 483 - 527 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
609,870
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies