Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Working Capital Management Cycle on Profitability of Retail Supermarkets in Mombasa, Kenya: A Case Study of Binathman Household Supermarket in Mombasa City

Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting, 2022 [10.9734/ajeba/2022/v22i1430623]

17 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Alice Ngari

Mount Kenya University

Charles Guandaru Kamau

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: May 10, 2022

Abstract

Working capital management involves running of short-term assets and liabilities due to its direct effect on profitability of a business. The aim of this research was to scrutinize the effect of working capital management cycle on the profitability of retail supermarkets in Mombasa, Kenya. This research was guided by Operating Cycle Theory, Trade-off theory and Transaction cost economic theory. This study applied descriptive survey design. Target populace of this research was seventyfive workers of the supermarket. Secondary data was gathered from monetary reports of the supermarket for 9 years from year 2011 to 2019. Data was presented using tables. To test how working capital management (WCM) and the profitability of Binathman Household Supermarket are related, a linear multiple regression test was conducted and analysis was carried via coefficient of multiple regression. The descriptive outcomes indicate a modest level of receivables collection period, cash conversion cycle, payables deferral period and inventory conversion period. The study found a positive correlation amid working capital management cycle variables in addition to profitability of the supermarket. However, the research indicated an inverse relationship between average payables period and return on assets; showing that longer payables periods had possibility of reducing a firm's earning if the cost of financing purchases was higher than the benefits. This research concludes that supermarket determine the cost of sales for their sales which was indicated

Keywords: Cash conversion cycle, inventory management, payables management, receivables management

JEL Classification: M41, F65, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ngari, Alice and Kamau, Charles Guandaru, The Effect of Working Capital Management Cycle on Profitability of Retail Supermarkets in Mombasa, Kenya: A Case Study of Binathman Household Supermarket in Mombasa City (May 10, 2022). Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting, 2022 [10.9734/ajeba/2022/v22i1430623], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4891310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
E E Bringham , M C Ehrahardt
Financial management theory and practice. 1o. Nartop Boulevard: South -Western/ Cengage Learning Posted: 2008
Falope Oll , O T Ajirole
Working capital management and corporate profitability
Research Journal of Business Management , volume 3 , p. 73 - 84 Posted: 2009
Peter Artril
Financial Management for Decision Makers Posted: 2012
Mohyedeen A Kaleem
An assesment of working capital management practices in Ghana. Acase Study of Selected Supermakets in Kumasi Metropolis Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
13,226
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies