Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Corporate Social Responsibility to Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Europe

32 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Alessandro Migliavacca

University of Turin

Abstract

This study provides evidence on the relationship between corporate tax avoidance (CTA) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) in Europe. Additionally, it provides first evidence on the effects of the Anti-tax avoidance directive and the increased corporate sustainability centrality in Europe. Using 19252 firm-year observations of European firms over the period 2010-2022. The results show that ESG-disclosing firms are not necessarily less tax-aggressive. Instead, as CSR performance deteriorates, firms are more likely to engage in tax avoidance, as evidenced by higher book-tax differences and lower effective tax rates. These findings support the view of fiscal responsibility as a social responsibility of firms. The study also highlights that the anti-tax avoidance directive has modified the relationship of CTA and CSR. The findings are of interest to policymakers and practitioners, especially in the context of Europe's transition to sustainable business models and efforts to contrast CTA.

Keywords: Corporate tax avoidance, Corporate social responsibility disclosure, CSR performance, ESG, Europe, Anti-tax avoidance directive

Suggested Citation:

Migliavacca, Alessandro, Linking Corporate Social Responsibility to Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Europe. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4891887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4891887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 Posted: 2020
C Adams
For Good and Evil: The Impact of Taxes on the Course of Civilization Posted: 1993
A Alexander , A D Vito , M Jacob
Corporate tax reforms and tax-motivated profit shifting: Evidence from the EU
Accounting and Business Research Posted: 2020
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
592,557
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies