Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Individualism and Corporate Innovation

China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-12-2023-0149]

28 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Fan Zhang

Bentley University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This paper aims to study the impact of CEOs' cultural background on corporate innovation. The paper constructs a measure of CEOs' cultural individualism based on their birthplaces and investigates its relationship with firms' patents and citations. The study aims to shed light on the interaction of culture and corporate decisions and focuses on the role of top managers. The paper also investigates the mechanism of how top management can affect corporate innovation output. Design/methodology/approach-The paper constructs the measure of individualism using the westward expansion in US history. To do so, the paper uses the US county-level duration of exposure of the frontier territory in the 19th century and links the counties to CEOs' birthplaces. The paper argues the cultural characteristics of birthplaces can affect a person's later management styles and decisions, hence affecting corporate innovation policies. Using regression and difference-indifferences estimations, the paper explores the relation and causality between cultural individualism and innovation output. Findings-The paper finds that CEO cultural individualism is positively related with the number of patents produced by the firm and the citations received by the firm. Difference-indifferences tests using CEO turnovers support that the relation is causal. The paper also investigates the economic mechanism of how individualistic CEOs achieve such results. It finds that individualistic CEOs tend to hire more talented employees and improve the workplace environment to attract top inventors. Originality/value-This paper provides firm-level evidence of culture and innovation. Prior studies in this area focus on cross-country evidence and suffer the limitation of confounding factors. Using a county-level measure of individualism and a sample of firms in USA, the paper alleviates the concern and provides evidence with better granularity. This paper also provides a novel mechanism for attracting top inventors, while existing literature tend to focus on risk-taking activities.

Keywords: Innovation, Culture, CEO turnover, Inventors

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Fan, CEO Individualism and Corporate Innovation (July 01, 2024). China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-12-2023-0149], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4892561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , M A Celik
Radical and incremental innovation: The roles of firms, managers, and innovators
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 199 - 249 Posted: 2020
A F Alesina , E L Glaeser , B Sacerdote
Why doesn't the U.S. have a European-style welfare system?
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2001
B N Ashraf , C Zheng , S Arshad
Effects of national culture on bank risk-taking behavior
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 37 , p. 309 - 326 Posted: 2016
J M Barrios , Y Hochberg , D Macciocchi
Rugged entrepreneurs: The geographic and cultural contours of new business formation
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Ran An , Feng Tian , Yinglei Zhang
Individualistic CEOs and Financial Misstatements
60 Pages · Posted: 22 Nov 2022 · Last revised: 21 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
126,283
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies