Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance metrics that entice agents to consider the long-term firm effect of their actions

33 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2024

Jan Bouwens

Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: July 12, 2024

Abstract

To assure that decision makers make decisions that are consistent with attaining long-term (sustainability) objectives it is imperative that employees are incited to consider the long-term effect of their decisions. In this paper I discuss whether the choice of performance metrics potentially affects the likelihood of agents to consider the long-term effects of their decisions. Some existing research would suggest that accounting return metrics-like residual income-and nonfinancial metrics may lead agents to redirect attention from the short to the long-term effect of their actions. I observe potential avenues for future research. At this stage we know little of how firms prioritize in deciding what metrics to use, how many metrics to use, or what weights they want to put on these metrics.

Keywords: Management accounting, Sustainability, Intertemporal decision making, Performance metric choice JEL Classifications: M4, M40 and M41

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bouwens, Jan, Performance metrics that entice agents to consider the long-term firm effect of their actions (July 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4892777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4892777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
436
RANK
658,366
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies