Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Ownership and Default Risk: What Does the Data Reveal About Japanese Firms?

China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-06-2023-0059]

31 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Humaira Haque

North South University

Md. Nurul Kabir

North South University

Syeda Abedin

North South University

Mohammad Dulal Miah

College of Banking and Financial Studies

Parmendra Sharma

Griffith University

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-The ownership structure in Japanese firms has experienced a significant change recently, fueled primarily by regulatory changes. This has important repercussions on corporate performance and risk. This paper examines the impact of insider ownership on the default risk of Japanese firms. Design/methodology/approach-We collected data from the Nikkei Corporate Governance Evaluation System (CGES) database for the period 2004-2019. Our final dataset yields 36,116 firm-year observations. We apply a firm fixed effect model for baseline regression. Endogeneity was checked by applying propensity score matching (PSM) and two-stage least squares (2SLS) techniques. Furthermore, the robustness of baseline regression results was checked using alternative estimation techniques. Findings-Results show a significant positive influence of insider ownership on default risk. Furthermore, ROA volatility and stock price volatility appear to be the major channels through which insider ownership affects a firm's default risk. We further document that external monitoring mechanisms, including traditional main bank ties, institutional ownership and analyst coverage, are the key risk-mitigating factors. Research limitations/implications-Our research deals with Japanese firms only. Future research may attempt to analyze the cases of emerging economies. Furthermore, future research might examine the ownership-default risk relationship for financial institutions to see if this relationship differs between financial and nonfinancial firms. Practical implications-Insider ownership enhances the probability of default. Hence, policymakers may consider instituting a ceiling for insider ownership in Japanese firms. Moreover, we highlight various risk-mediating channels that would help policymakers adopt guidelines for mitigating corporate risk. Originality/value-Our study is the first to investigate the effect of insider ownership on default risk in Japanese settings. Prior studies identified various determinants that affect firms' default risk. Our study contributes to this stream of literature by examining the impact of insider ownership on default risk and extending the limited literature related to insider ownership.

Keywords: Ownership, Default risk, Japan, Corporate governance, Firm performance

JEL Classification: G01, G32, G33, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Humaira and Kabir, Md. Nurul and Abedin, Syeda and Miah, Mohammad Dulal and Sharma, Parmendra, Insider Ownership and Default Risk: What Does the Data Reveal About Japanese Firms? (July 01, 2024). China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-06-2023-0059], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4892565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
C L Ahmadjian
Changing Japanese corporate governance
Japanese Economy , volume 28 , issue 6 , p. 59 - 84 Posted: 2000
C L Ahmadjian , G E Robbins
A clash of capitalisms: Foreign shareholders and corporate restructuring in 1990s Japan
American Sociological Review , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 451 - 471 Posted: 2005
S Ali , B Liu , J J Su
Does corporate governance quality affect default risk? The role of growth opportunities and stock liquidity
International Review of Economics and Finance , volume 58 , p. 422 - 448 Posted: 2018
P C Andreou , C Antoniou , J Horton , C Louca
Corporate governance and firm-specific stock price crashes
European Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 916 - 956 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
864,457
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies