Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between the Accounting Standards and the Global Financial Crisis: Empirical Analysis of Mergers and Acquisitions in Banking Industry

China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-05-2023-0050]

25 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024

Ali İhsan Akgün

Ankara Yildirim Beyazit University

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose - The purpose of this study is to focus on, namely, the international financial reporting standards (IFRS) or local generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) effects of financial reporting as a corporate governance mechanism on mergers and acquisitions (M&As) for banking institutions during the global financial crisis. 

Design/methodology/approach - I investigate the characteristics of bank financial statements before the start of the global crisis, which helps to explain the relationships between the accounting standards and the global financial crisis. The observations, which are based on 3,178 deals in a sample period, are crucially important for corporate governance and bank performance. The results from our analysis are robust to a wide variety of modifications in our research design and are corroborated by descriptive statistics, one-way ANOVA and a two-sample t-test on a sample of banks that voluntarily adopted IFRS for M&As. 

Findings - The find that IFRS-based monitoring of banks M&As in terms of higher quality financial reporting is negatively linked with bank performance, whereas local GAAP-based monitoring of banks' M&A is positively associated with accounting performance. Finally, our main results for higher quality financial reporting under local GAAP or IFRS generally hold after controlling for various analyses and relationships between account standards and the financial crisis. 

Practical implications - Financial reporting standards setting a corporate governance mechanism are considered since it was impacted recently during the global financial crisis and became a great matter of concern. 

Originality/value - The value of this paper is determined by an empirical investigation of the relationships between bank performance and accounting and financial reporting standards in the context of the global economy.

Keywords: Financial crisis, International financial reporting standards, Bank merger performance

Suggested Citation:

Akgün, Ali İhsan, The Relationship Between the Accounting Standards and the Global Financial Crisis: Empirical Analysis of Mergers and Acquisitions in Banking Industry (July 01, 2024). China Accounting and Finance Review, volume 26, issue 3, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-05-2023-0050], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4892575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Abu Alrub , M Rjoub , H
Does the improvement in accounting standard IAS/IFRS cure the financial crisis and bank profitability? Evidence from banking sector in Lebanon
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 727 - 744 Posted: 2020
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 336 Posted: 2016
R B Adams
Governance and the financial crisis
International Review of Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 38 Posted: 2012
B Adhikari , M Kavanagh , B Hampson
Analysis of the pre-post-merger and acquisition financial performance of selected banks in Nepal
Asia Pacific Management Review , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 449 - 458 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
657
RANK
785,362
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies