Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From FASB to Retail Shelves: ASC 606, Promotions, and Prices

Posted: 12 Aug 2024

Zitong Zeng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 03, 2024

Abstract

Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606 altered the timing of revenue recognition for variable consideration trade promotions, potentially increasing perceived revenue volatility and compliance costs for manufacturers. I hypothesize that ASC 606 adoption led manufacturers to reduce their use of variable consideration trade promotions, diminishing retailers' incentives to offer temporary price reductions to consumers. Using retail scanner data and a difference-in-differences design exploiting variation in adoption timing, I document that retail prices for products from ASC 606 adopters increase by 4.4% relative to those from manufacturers that had yet to adopt. I provide evidence of a significant shift from variable to fixed consideration promotions post-ASC 606 adoption, providing insight into the potential channel through which this price increase operates. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that both increased revenue volatility and compliance costs significantly influence manufacturers' responses to ASC 606. This study documents product market decisions that firms make in response to reporting changes and contributes to the literature on the broader consequences of accounting rules.

Suggested Citation:

Zeng, Zitong, From FASB to Retail Shelves: ASC 606, Promotions, and Prices (July 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4893791
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies