Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers Successfully Shop for Auditors Who Allow them to Opportunistically Report Positive News? Evidence from Accounting Estimates

64 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2024

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jieying Zhang

The University of Texas at Dallas

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: June 05, 2024

Abstract

Prior auditor-shopping literature examines managers' attempts to opportunistically underreport negative news, by finding auditors who will allow them to avoid negative audit opinions or underreport goodwill impairments or financial misstatements. We advance this literature by examining management attempts to opportunistically report positive news, as captured by incomeincreasing changes in accounting estimates. Adapting the framework in Lennox (2000) we find that, ex-ante, managers are more (less) likely to dismiss their auditor if it increases (decreases) the expected likelihood of reporting income-increasing changes in accounting estimates (POSCHGs). We also find that, ex-post, following auditor dismissals, the frequency and magnitude of POSCHGs increase and companies reporting POSCHGs are more likely to restate earnings, receive SEC comment letters related to estimates, meet or beat earnings targets, and less likely to receive going concern opinions or violate debt covenants. Placebo tests show that none of the above results hold for income-decreasing changes in estimates. Finally, we identify several institutional factors that constrain managers' ability to shop for lenient auditors, including the quality of the successor auditor and strong corporate governance. Collectively, our findings are consistent with managers successfully shopping for auditors who allow them to opportunistically report positive news following auditor dismissals.

Keywords: auditor shopping, accounting estimates, auditor dismissals, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Zhang, Jieying and Zhao, Yuping, Do Managers Successfully Shop for Auditors Who Allow them to Opportunistically Report Positive News? Evidence from Accounting Estimates (June 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4893053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4893053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
A Albrecht , M Glendening , K Kyonghee , K J Lee
Material Changes in Accounting Estimates and the Usefulness of Earnings
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
K Amin , D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor Sentiment and Audit Opinion Shopping
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 40 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
D R Ayres , T , L Neal , L C Reid , J E Shipman
Auditing Goodwill in the Post-Amortization Era: Challenges for Auditors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 82 - 107 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
292,443
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies