Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Policy Uncertainty Exposure and Corporate ESG Performance: Evidence from China

42 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2024

Daping Zhao

Capital University of Economics and Business

Ande Wang

Capital University of Economics and Business

Ji (George) Wu

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Jing Li

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Liping Zou

School of Economics and Finance, Massey Univeristy, Albany

Abstract

We delve into the impact of climate policy uncertainty exposure (CPUE) on corporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance in China from 2010 to 2020. Our analysis reveals a notably positive relationship between CPUE and the ESG rating of Chinese firms. This finding retains its significance even after subjecting it to robustness checks. Furthermore, the results of mechanism tests indicate that the primary finding is mediated through external climate attention and internal corporate governance channels. Additionally, our study uncovers that CPUE exerts a particularly pronounced effect on enhancing ESG performance among firms with weaker green innovation capacities, facing higher green transition pressures, experiencing lower agency costs, and those categorised as State-Owned Enterprises. In sum, our research provides unique insights into the influence of climate policy uncertainty on corporations, shedding light on its implications for ESG performance in the Chinese context.

Keywords: Climate policy uncertainty exposure, ESG, China

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Daping and Wang, Ande and Wu, Ji (George) and Li, Jing and Zou, Liping, Climate Policy Uncertainty Exposure and Corporate ESG Performance: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4894025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4894025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
700
RANK
644,694
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies