Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing Versus Signaling Corporate Social Responsibility Activitiesand Their Association with Earnings Smoothing

38 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2024

Apostolos Ballas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Dimosthenis L. Hevas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Orestis Vlismas

Athens University of Economics and Business

Abstract

This study explores the relation of investing and signaling Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities with different types of real and accrual earnings smoothing. CSR expenses may lead to improved future performance (investing CSR activities) or inside information for future performance leads managers to undertake current CSR expenditures providing signal for firm’s prospects (signaling CSR activities). We expect a positive relation between signaling CSR activities and earnings smoothing because both aim to enhance earnings informativeness and operate as managerial signals for communicating inside value-relevant information. In addition, the presence of high signaling CSR activities indicates increased resource availability for financing resource demanding earnings smoothing activities. If managers perceive CSR activities as investments with no signaling dimension, we expect a negative relationship between investing CSR activities and earnings smoothing. Our empirical findings indicate that the investing (signaling) CSR activities are negatively (positively) associated with earnings smoothing. The relationship of investing/signaling CSR activities with earnings smoothing seems to be more profound in the absence of managerial motives to meet earnings targets but it is affected by the presence of a sustainability committee.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, Earnings smoothing, Investing CSR activities, Signaling CSR activities

Suggested Citation:

Ballas, Apostolos A. and Karampinis, Nikolaos I. and Hevas, Dimosthenis (Dimosthenes) L. and Vlismas, Orestis, Investing Versus Signaling Corporate Social Responsibility Activitiesand Their Association with Earnings Smoothing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4895477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4895477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: A literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
Y Almahrog , Z A Aribi , T Arun
Earnings management and corporate social responsibility: UK evidence
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2018
M L Andersen , L Olsen
Accruals quality and corporate social responsibility: The role of industry
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 65 - 79 Posted: 2012
R Andersen
Modern Methods for Robust Regression Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies