Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the JOBS Act on the Costs of Going Public: Evidence from Long-Term Audit Costs

Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Sudip Gupta

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Joseph Micale

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Ashok Robin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - E. Philip Saunders College of Business

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act (2012) allows reduced compliance costs for IPOs with less than $1 billion in revenues. While prior research has focused on the Act's ability to reduce short-term IPO compliance costs, we investigate how the Act affected key observable compliance costs-audit fees-over the five years the issuing firm is eligible for this reduced level of disclosure/compliance. In contrast to prior findings of increased short-term audit costs, we find that long-term audit costs decreased by 16.6 percent, or $172,000 for IPO firms following JOBS, relative to the change fees for in control firms unaffected by the regulation. After investigating other consequences of the Act, we find greater information uncertainty for affected firms following JOBS. However, we find lower accrual-based earnings management as responses to these information frictions. We find the reductions in earnings management is driven by firms with the greatest information uncertainty with investors, suggesting that affected firms take additional steps to mitigate the information risks in light of their inherently riskier IPOs. Overall, we present a fuller picture of the costs/benefits and risk mitigation in post-JOBS IPOs.

Keywords: EGC, JOBS Act, audit fees, audit pricing, SOX 404(b), IPO regulation JEL Classification: G10, G18, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Sudip and Micale, Joseph and Robin, Ashok and Yang, Rong, The Impact of the JOBS Act on the Costs of Going Public: Evidence from Long-Term Audit Costs (July 01, 2024). Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4895201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4895201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
759,678
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies