Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology Coopetition and Voluntary Disclosures of Innovation

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024

Jun Oh

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University

P. Eric Yeung

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Bo Zhu

Southwest Jiaotong University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: August 14, 2022

Abstract

We examine firms' voluntary disclosures of innovation under technology coopetition, focusing on technology standard setting organizations (SSOs). Technology coopetition is characterized by i) cooperation to determine technology standards, which requires information sharing to reach consensus, and ii) competition for standard implementation to obtain standard-essential patents, which create incentives for firms to deviate from the expected level of information sharing. We document a decrease in 10-K narrative R&D disclosures, more generic 10-K narrative R&D disclosures, and a longer delay of patent disclosures via the USPTO after a firm joins an SSO. Among alternative explanations, our evidence is most supportive of the hypothesis that firms strategically withhold innovation information.

Keywords: Standard setting organizations, R&D disclosure, Patent disclosures, SEP litigation, Coopetition

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Jun and Yeung, P. Eric and Zhu, Bo, Technology Coopetition and Voluntary Disclosures of Innovation (August 14, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4895065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
J J Anton , D A Yao
Standard-setting consortia, antitrust, and high-technology industries
Antitrust LJ , volume 64 Posted: 1995
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J Baron , D F Spulber
Technology standards and standard setting organizations: Introduction to the Searle Center Database
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 462 - 503 Posted: 2018
Load more
2 Citations
Yangyang Chen , Gaoliang Tian , Xuan Wu , Zilong Zhang
<b><span>Co-opetition and Corporate R&D Disclosure: Evidence from Standard-Setting Organizations</span></b>
55 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 15 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 690
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Francesco Mazzi , Richard Slack , Ioannis Tsalavoutas , Fanis Tsoligkas
R&D disclosures and the informativeness of future earnings
Forthcoming in ABACUS · 68 Pages · Posted: 22 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 5 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 337
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,356
RANK
86,048
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies