Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation Rights and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Universal Demand Laws

67 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2024

Md Noman Hossain

California State University Fullerton

Ahmed Elnahas

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Ghada Ismail

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Exploiting the staggered adoption of universal demand (UD) laws as an exogenous shock to derivative lawsuits, we investigate the relationship between shareholders’ litigation rights and corporate tax avoidance. Our difference-in-differences estimate shows that the affected firms increased their engagement in tax avoidance following the adoption of UD laws. Results are stronger for firms with lower external monitoring, higher financial constraints, and higher ex-ante litigation threats. Further, we find that the elevated tax avoidance caused by the adoption of UD laws has a negative effect on firm value. Our results are robust to addressing selection bias using the propensity score matching and omitted variable bias using Oster’s test, using trend analysis, and controlling for other antitakeover laws. Overall, our findings suggest that stronger shareholders’ litigation rights reduce managerial rent extraction opportunities and mitigate agency problems.

Keywords: Keywords: Shareholder Litigation, Tax Avoidance, Agency Problems.

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Md Noman and Elnahas, Ahmed and Ismail, Ghada, Shareholder Litigation Rights and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Universal Demand Laws. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4895183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4895183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
V V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
Journal of financial intermediation , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
B Adhikari , A Agrawal , B Sharma
Does litigation risk deter insider trading? Evidence from universal demand laws Posted: 2019-06
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
A Agrawal , G N Mandelker
Large shareholders and the monitoring of managers: The case of antitakeover charter amendments
Journal of Financial and Quantitative analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
333
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies