Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Court Disclosures of Firms in Chapter 11 Bankruptcy

Accepted by Journal of Accounting Research. Forthcoming.

82 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Ilona Bastiaansen

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Alina Lerman

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

Stakeholders in the Chapter 11 reorganization process face significant information uncertainty about the post-emergence prospects of the firm. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code requires a debtor to provide a disclosure statement containing “adequate information” about its financial status and a proposed reorganization plan but stops short of rigidly defining the adequacy standard. We document the heterogeneity in disclosure statement information across 16 distinct attributes and examine the variation in disclosures along several dimensions that reflect agency costs and coordination problems. We observe that Chapter 11 disclosure correlates more with claimant- and case-specific characteristics than pre-bankruptcy debtor characteristics. Our results illustrate the importance of institutional features in specific disclosure settings such as bankruptcy court filings. The research questions and methods of this study were registered via the Journal of Accounting Research’s registration-based editorial process.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Chapter 11, Restructuring, Information Frictions, Disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, G33, G34, K22, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bastiaansen, Ilona and Lerman, Alina and Murphy, Frank and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Court Disclosures of Firms in Chapter 11 Bankruptcy (April 29, 2024). Accepted by Journal of Accounting Research. Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4895138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4895138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
P Aghion , O Hart; , J Moore
The Economics of Bankruptcy Reform
Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 8 , p. 523 - 546 Posted: 1992
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj; , P Sengupta
The Association Between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R M Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Kanodia; , B Shapiro
Information Transparency and Coordination Failure: Theory and Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , p. 159 - 195 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,229
RANK
274,044
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies