Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SOX Legislation Amendments, JOBS, and Foreign IPO Attractiveness

69 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2024 Last revised: 18 Oct 2024

Ronan Powell

University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business

Vassilios G. Papavassiliou

University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business; UCD Geary Institute for Public Policy; University of Bologna - Rimini Center for Economic Analysis (RCEA)

Date Written: July 16, 2024

Abstract

We examine the impact of amendments of the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act (2002) and new legislation using the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act on all foreign issues and a smaller sample of foreign IPO listings on U.S. exchanges relative to the U.K. We show that changes to SOX legislation that reduced costs for smaller firms that meet SEC float size had a significant positive impact on all foreign issues and IPOs for U.S. exchanges relative to the U.K. We also show that the introduction of the JOBS Act had a similar positive impact for all foreign issues that meet emerging growth company (EGC) requirements, but not for IPO listings. Our findings are different to recent research on the impact of JOBS on U.S. domestic IPOs and suggest that using alternative markets, such as the U.K. as a counterfactual, provides a novel contribution on the impact of legislative policy changes.

Keywords: Foreign IPOs, Innovation, Sarbanes-Oxley, JOBS, High Growth Segment (HGS)

Suggested Citation:

Powell, Ronan G. and Papavassiliou, Vassilios G., SOX Legislation Amendments, JOBS, and Foreign IPO Attractiveness (July 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4896984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4896984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
J Bain
Barriers to new competition Posted: 1956
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D J Taylor
The JOBS Act and information uncertainty in IPO firms
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2017
C Caglio , K W Hanley , J Marietta-Westberg
Going Public Abroad: The role of international markets for IPOs Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies