Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Through the Narrow Door: The Role of ESG in the Completion of Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions Deals

30 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2024

Boying Xu

Coventry University

Abay Mulatu

Coventry University

Tu Van Binh

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper presents an empirical investigation of the role of ESG standards in the success of cross-border mergers and acquisitions (CBM&A) deals. We use a dataset of 2260 announced deals by firms originating from 19 emerging countries and involving 42 target countries across the globe over the period 2010-2018. Our key results suggest that acquirer firms with relatively higher ESG standards are more likely to complete CBM&A deals. While greater ESG levels in target countries tend to reduce the probability of deal success, this negative effect is moderated by higher ESG levels in acquirer firms, resulting in a mitigation of the likelihood of deal failure. Our results are robust across various ESG measurements, account for cross-country factors, control for target firm and country factors, and address endogeneity concerns. Our findings indicate that as emerging market firms expand their global M&A activities, it is crucial for them to prioritize the role of ESG and ensure alignment of ESG standards between acquirers and targets.

Keywords: deal competition, cross-border mergers and acquisitions, emerging markets, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Boying and Mulatu, Abay and Binh, Tu Van, Through the Narrow Door: The Role of ESG in the Completion of Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions Deals. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4897189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4897189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M F Ahammad , V Leone , S Y Tarba , K W Glaister , A Arslan
Equity Ownership in Cross-border Mergers and Acquisitions by British Firms: An Analysis of Real Options and Transaction Cost Factors
British Journal of Management , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 180 - 196 Posted: 2017
A Alkhawaja , F Hu , S Johl , S Nadarajah
Board Gender Diversity, Quotas, and ESG Disclosure: Global Evidence
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 90 Posted: 2023
M Arouri , M Gomes , K Pukthuanthong
Corporate social responsibility and M&A uncertainty
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 176 - 198 Posted: 2019
R Attah-Boakye , Y Guney , E Hernandez-Perdomo , J Mun
Why do some merger and acquisitions deals fail? A global perspective
International Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 4734 - 4776 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
636
RANK
459,150
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies