Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Charitable Giving and Agency Problem: Evidence from a Business Group

63 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Yu Kyung Lee

Pukyong National University

Abstract

I examine how agency conflict distorts the resource allocation within a business group with special attention to the incentives of the controlling shareholder. Specifically, I analyze whether the controlling shareholder’s wealth in each affiliate systematically affects the amount of corporate giving in that affiliate. I find that the affiliate where a controlling shareholder has more (less) invested their wealth engages in less (more) corporate giving. This result indicates that a controlling shareholder, pursuing their own interest, intends to raise their reputation through corporate philanthropy while bearing less cost to themselves. This interpretation is also supported by other results, including the relationship between corporate giving and a firm’s financial performance, the effect of corporate governance on this relationship, and the results from the subsample analyses of firms with charitable foundations and family CEOs. Overall, my findings are consistent with the exploitation hypothesis of corporate giving.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Charitable Giving, Controlling Shareholder, Agency Problem, Business Group

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Yu Kyung, Corporate Charitable Giving and Agency Problem: Evidence from a Business Group. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4898184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4898184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B B Ajinkya , P C Jain
The behavior of daily stock market trading volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 331 - 359 Posted: 1989
H V Almeida , D Wolfenzon
A theory of pyramidal ownership and family business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 6 , p. 2637 - 2680 Posted: 2006
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
K Bae , J Kang , J Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
283
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies