Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Director Networks Affect Voluntary Carbon Assurance? The Contingent Role of Peer Carbon Assurance

41 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Yu-Lin Chen

National Taipei University of Business

Meichu Huang

Chung Yuan Christian University

Abstract

Scant literature focuses on the determinants of carbon assurance, especially how board centrality and peer carbon assurance influence a company's decision to adopt voluntary carbon assurance. This study investigates whether directors' superior access to high-quality information through their board networks affects the likelihood of adopting voluntary carbon assurance. Meanwhile, it explores how peer carbon assurance (frequency-based imitation versus outcome-based imitation) shapes the likelihood of firms with greater board centrality to voluntarily acquire carbon assurance. This study employs firms on Taiwan and Taipei exchanges from 2016 to 2021 as the research sample. Our findings indicate that the likelihood of companies acquiring voluntary carbon assurance is positively associated with board centrality. Furthermore, this relationship is reinforced by the number of pioneering peers already reducing carbon emissions and acquiring carbon assurance. However, the association is not influenced by the number of pioneering peers' carbon assurance.

Keywords: Carbon assurance, board centrality, peer information, frequency-based imitation, outcome-based imitation

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yu-Lin and Huang, Meichu, Do Director Networks Affect Voluntary Carbon Assurance? The Contingent Role of Peer Carbon Assurance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Amin , L Chourou , S Kamal , M Malik , Y Zhao
It's who you know that counts: Board connectedness and CSR performance
J. Corp. Financ , volume 64 Posted: 2020
H B Barka , A Dardour
Investigating the relationship between director's profile, board interlocks and corporate social responsibility
Manage. Decis , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 553 - 570 Posted: 2015
B Baysinger , R E Hoskisson
The composition of boards of directors and strategic control: Effects on corporate strategy
Acad. Manage. Rev , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 87 Posted: 1990
P J Bezemer , A Pugliese , G Nicholson , A Zattoni
Toward a synthesis of the board-strategy relationship: A literature review and future research agenda
Corp. Govern.: Int. Rev , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 178 - 197 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
184
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies