Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why do startups become unicorns instead of going public? 

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2024-03-010 and Charles A. Dice Center WP 2024-10

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 857/2022

79 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2024

Daria Davydova

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); University of Lugano, Swiss Finance Institute

Rüdiger Fahlenbrach

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Leandro Sanz

University of Notre Dame - Department of Finance

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 28, 2024

Abstract

Unicorns are startups that choose to stay private even though they are large enough to go public. We propose an efficiency explanation for their existence. Startups relying highly on organization capital are more vulnerable to expropriation of their organization capital if they go public before their position is sufficiently secure. Our main empirical findings are that shocks to the fragility of organization capital decrease the IPO likelihood, unicorn status enables startups to stay private longer by giving them access to new sources of capital, and unicorns and their industries have higher organization capital intensity than other startups.

Keywords: Unicorns, Organization Capital, Scale and Scope, Venture Capital, Private vs. Public

JEL Classification: G24, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Davydova, Daria and Fahlenbrach, Rüdiger and Sanz, Leandro and Stulz, Rene M., Why do startups become unicorns instead of going public?  (June 28, 2024). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2024-03-010 and Charles A. Dice Center WP 2024-10, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 857/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,657
RANK
33,575
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies