Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Signaling and Local Religiosity: The Role of Risk Attitudes

14 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Carmen Aranda

University of Navarra - Business

David Echeverry

University of Navarra

Andres Mesa Toro

University of Navarra - Faculty of Economics and Business

Abstract

We link the stock market response to dividend announcements and religiosity attitudes for a sample of US commercial banks. We find that banks headquartered in highly religious areas see milder market reactions than those in less religious counties, implying that the announcements carry less information. Locations with a higher ratio of Protestants to Catholics exhibit weaker market responses to dividend announcements. Since Protestants are less inclined to gamble than Catholics, the likely mechanism behind our findings is heterogeneity of risk attitudes across religions. This underscores the role of local culture in market behavior, contributing to the literature on dividend signaling.

Keywords: Dividend announcement, religiosity, risk-taking, event-study, signaling.

Suggested Citation:

Aranda, Carmen and Echeverry, David and Mesa Toro, Andres, Dividend Signaling and Local Religiosity: The Role of Risk Attitudes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Does local religiosity matter for bank risktaking
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 272 - 293 Posted: 2016
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Religion, gambling attitudes and corporate innovation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 229 - 248 Posted: 2016
M J Alderson , B L Betker , J T Halford
Fictitious dividend cuts in the CRSP data
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 71 Posted: 2021
N Apergis
Religion groups and portfolio choice decisions: Evidence from UK households
Finance Research Letters , volume 54 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies