Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Influence and Carbon Emissions Underreporting

54 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Yun Fan

University of Oklahoma - Steed School of Accounting

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Ling Zhang

Rowan University

Date Written: July 18, 2024

Abstract

Stakeholders, including customers, are increasingly concerned with corporate environmental performance. Those firms deemed to have poor environmental performance are often penalized by stakeholders. These penalties can occur through various formal and informal mechanisms that impose costs and operating restrictions on the firm, leading to lower future financial performance. Using firms’ actual carbon emission information from satellite data, we measure firms’ underreporting to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We find evidence of a negative relation between firms’ reported carbon emissions and future financial performance. However, managers appear to mitigate this negative relation by underreporting their firm’s carbon emissions. Furthermore, managers’ underreporting to mitigate the negative performance effect of carbon emissions is more salient for firms whose customers appear to have more influence. The evidence is consistent with customer influence motivating managers to underreport their firm’s carbon emissions to achieve better financial performance.

Keywords: ESG, carbon emission, financial performance, environmental disclosures, major customers

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Yun and Thomas, Wayne B. and Zhang, Ling, Customer Influence and Carbon Emissions Underreporting (July 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
N K Arystanbekova
Application of Gaussian plume models for air pollution simulation at instantaneous emissions
Mathematics and Computers in Simulation , volume 67 , issue 4-5 , p. 451 - 458 Posted: 2004
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The big three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
D P Baron
Managerial contracting and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Public Economics , volume 92 , issue 1-2 , p. 268 - 288 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
750
RANK
521,283
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies