Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Government Policies During the Covid-19 Pandemic on Earnings Management

32 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2024

Raden Roro Widya Ningtyas Soeprajitno

Universitas Gadjah Mada, Indonesia

Ainun Na'im

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Fuad Rakhman

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Abstract

This study examines the effects of government policies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic on management decisions on earnings. While existing studies usually treat a crisis as a single event, in this study, we disentangle the two contrasting forces typically present during a crisis, one increasing and the other decreasing the severity of the crisis. We use the government policy BSG index issued by the University of Oxford COVID-19 Project to identify types and measure the extent of policies issued by governments worldwide during the COVID-19 pandemic that affect the uncertainty about the future of business and the economy. Our sample includes public firms from 74 countries, with a total observation of 57,758 firm-years from 2020 to 2022. We find that different policies have different effects on earnings management. Specifically, our results show that containment policies reduce earnings management while economic policies increase earnings management. This study contributes to the literature on how government policies and prolonged economic shocks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, affect earnings management. We believe that our ability to disentangle the two contrasting forces in a crisis and separately examine their effect on earnings management is the novelty of this study. Our results should provide policymakers with insights into the impact of governments’ policies on management decisions, especially on reported earnings.

Keywords: earnings management, governments' policies, the COVID-19 pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Soeprajitno, Raden Roro Widya Ningtyas and Na'im, Ainun and Rakhman, Fuad, The Effects of Government Policies During the Covid-19 Pandemic on Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
H Ali , H M G Amin , D Mostafa , E K A Mohamed
Earnings management and investor protection during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence from G-12 countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 37 , issue 7 , p. 775 - 797 Posted: 2022
B A W Aljawaheri , H Kadhem Ojah , A Hussein Machi , A Hamza Almagtome
COVID-19 Lockdown, Earnings Manipulation and Stock Market Sensitivity: An Empirical Study in Iraq
Hamza ALMAGTOME / Journal of Asian Finance , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 707 - 715 Posted: 2021
M C Apedo-Amah , B Avdiu , X Cirera , M Cruz , E Davies , A Grover , L Iacovone , U Kilinc , D Medvedev , F O Maduko
Posted: 2020
N Arthur , Q Tang , Z S Lin
Corporate accruals quality during the 2008-2010 Global Financial Crisis
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 25 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
277
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies