Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Strategies for Management Earnings Forecasts: Insights from the Perspective of Firm Life Cycle

56 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2024

Tanzila Upama

Florida Atlantic University

Jian Cao

Florida Atlantic University

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Yun Cheng

State University of West Georgia

Abstract

This study examines changes in firms’ disclosure strategies in management earnings forecasts over their life cycle. We find that firms in the growth (introduction) life-cycle stage are most (least) likely to issue quarterly earnings forecasts. Growth firms are more likely to initiate forecasts than mature firms. Firms in the shakeout and decline stages are more likely to cease forecasts than mature firms, suggesting the benefits (costs) of disclosure decrease (increase) beyond the mature life-cycle stage. We also find that growth firms tend to issue forecasts that are meetable and beatable, whereas forecasts by shakeout firms are more vulnerable to bias. With regard to the stock price response to forecasts, we find that the market’s immediate response is more pronounced for growth firms. Our findings highlight the life-cycle effects in firms’ use of voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, management earnings forecasts, firm life cycle, forecast accuracy, forecast optimism, forecast news

Suggested Citation:

Upama, Tanzila and Cao, Jian and Lin, Steve and Cheng, Yun, Disclosure Strategies for Management Earnings Forecasts: Insights from the Perspective of Firm Life Cycle. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Allen , M F Lewis-Western , K Valentine
The innovation and reporting consequences of financial regulation for young life-cycle firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 95 Posted: 2022
A Amin , B Bowler , M M Hasan , G J Lobo , J Tresl
Firm life cycle and cost of debt
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 154 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
860
RANK
588,270
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies