Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Incentive Improve Corporate Resilience? A Quasi-Natural Experiments Based on Value-Added Tax Retained Rebate Policy

46 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2024

Youliang Jin

Central South University

Xuan Feng

Central South University

Huixiang Zeng

Central South University

Abstract

The value-added taxes (VAT) retained rebate policy, being an important fiscal initiative to stimulate corporations, has provided new ideas for enterprises to improve their resilience. Using China's VAT retained rebate policy enacted in 2018 as an exogenous shock, this paper examines the impact of this policy on corporate resilience using the Difference-In-Differences (DID) model with a sample of A-share listed companies. The outcomes show that this policy significantly improves corporate resilience. Furthermore, the mechanism test reveals that increases in enterprise endogenous funds and reductions in financing constraints and agency problems play crucial intermediary roles. Further research finds that under the circumstances of heavy tax burden, low levels of commercial credit, weak bargaining power of suppliers, and strong tax collection ability in the region where the VAT retained rebate policy is implemented, the policy is more capable of enhancing corporate resilience. Moreover, the policy has a sustained effect on the enhancement of the financial performance of enterprises. It is worth noting that this paper not only evaluates the microeconomic effects of the VAT retained rebate policy from the perspective of corporate resilience, but it also provides decision-making references for tax incentives aimed at relieving enterprises and promoting their high-quality development.

Keywords: VAT retained rebate policy, tax neutrality, Corporate resilience, cash flow, tax administration intensity

Suggested Citation:

Jin, Youliang and Feng, Xuan and Zeng, Huixiang, Does Tax Incentive Improve Corporate Resilience? A Quasi-Natural Experiments Based on Value-Added Tax Retained Rebate Policy. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4900495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4900495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of Environmental and Social Stocks : An Analysis of the Exogenous COVID-19 Market Crash
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
S P Anderson , A De Palma , B Kreider
The efficiency of indirect taxes under imperfect competition
Journal of Public Economics , volume 81 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 251 Posted: 2001
I Bethmann , M Jacob , M A Mueller
Tax Loss Carrybacks : Investment Stimulus versus Misallocation , volume 93 , p. 101 - 125 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
677,550
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies