Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizon to Sustainability: Ceo Incentive Duration and Corporate Social Responsibility

76 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2024

Xudong Fu

University of Louisville

Rui Shen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Tian Tang

University of Louisville

Xinyan Yan

University of South Florida - Department of Finance

Abstract

This paper finds that CEO incentive horizons, as measured by CEOs’ pay duration, are positively associated with their firms’ performance in corporate social responsibility (CSR), particularly for firms facing higher risks of reputation loss or requiring greater stakeholder support. Further tests suggest that longer pay duration incentivizes CEOs to invest in CSR activities that benefit both stakeholders and shareholders in the future. Moreover, we employ various identification strategies to show that endogenous factors are less likely to drive our conclusions or inferences. We conduct a series of tests to confirm the robustness of our findings. Overall, our evidence indicates the benefits of longer incentive horizons for helping firms align their stakeholders’ interests with those of stakeholders and broader goals of society and environment.

Keywords: Managerial Myopia, CEO Pay Duration, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Fu, Xudong and Shen, Rui and Tang, Tian and Yan, Xinyan, Horizon to Sustainability: Ceo Incentive Duration and Corporate Social Responsibility. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4900624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4900624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich
Hacking corporate reputations Posted: 2018
S Balsam , A Reitenga , J Yin
Option acceleration in response to SFAS No. 123(R). Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2008
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
How to tie equity compensation to long-term results
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 99 - 106 Posted: 2010
B Becker , P Strömberg
Fiduciary duties and equity-debtholder conflicts
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 1931 - 1969 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
RANK
914,805
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies