Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Returns to ESG: Perspective on Organizational Demographic Heterogeneity

12 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2024

Jiangtao Liu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Lin Tan

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Yi Zhang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

The relationship between ESG factors and corporate performance is contentious, partly due to the literature's neglect of organizational demographic differences. Using data from 5,127 Chinese companies (2009-2022), we empirically analyze ESG's impact on corporate performance, factoring in the demographic heterogeneity of executive teams. Our findings indicate that although ESG indeed enhances corporate performance, its conversion effect is significantly influenced by the vertical dyads of gender and education within the top management teams (TMT). Additionally, our extended analysis reveals that these two types of vertical dyads exhibit distinct structural characteristics.

Keywords: ESG, operational performance, TMT, vertical dyads

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Jiangtao and Tan, Lin and Zhang, Yi, Economic Returns to ESG: Perspective on Organizational Demographic Heterogeneity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4901527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4901527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
H Alzubaidi , E L Slade , Y K Dwivedi
Examining antecedents of consumers' pro-environmental behaviours: TPB extended with materialism and innovativeness
Journal of Business Research , volume 122 , p. 685 - 699 Posted: 2021
A C Amason , R C Shrader , G H Tompson
Newness and novelty: Relating top management team composition to new venture performance
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 21 , p. 125 - 148 Posted: 2006
K A Bantel , S E Jackson
Top management and innovations in banking: Does the composition of the top team make a difference?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 10 , p. 107 - 124 Posted: 1989
M A Carpenter
The implications of strategy and social context for the relationship between top management team heterogeneity and firm performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 23 , p. 275 - 284 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies