Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the Fight Against Tax Avoidance Be One Click Away?

36 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Andreia Magalhaes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rogério Serrasqueiro

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Paulo Dias

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of SAF-T (Standard Audit File for Tax Purposes) on tax avoidance activities in Portugal. The sample comprises 299,062 observations from 85,247 non-financial companies from 2012 to 2018, estimated through an ordinary least square panel data regression with firm fixed effects.The study reveals that the implementation of SAF-T measures had a detrimental effect on companies that previously engaged in high levels of tax avoidance, despite the reduction in statutory tax rates. These findings indicate that intensified tax enforcement played a significant role in combating tax evasion and curbing tax avoidance activities.This paper delves into Portugal’s pioneering adoption of SAF-T, establishing the country as a reference in its implementation. The introduction of SAF-T brought about profound societal changes on several fronts. It fostered technological advancements within companies and increased public awareness regarding the importance of tax compliance. The goal of this article is to make a valuable contribution to the literature by offering a practical example of how SAF-T can effectively reduce tax avoidance through strengthened tax enforcement.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, tax planning, tax aggressiveness, tax enforcement, tax

Suggested Citation:

Magalhaes, Andreia and Serrasqueiro, Rogério and Dias, Paulo, Can the Fight Against Tax Avoidance Be One Click Away?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Agarwal , S Chen , L F Mills
Entity structure and taxes: An analysis of embedded pass-through entities
Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , G Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the United States related?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 344 - 389 Posted: 2022
M Amidu , W Coffie , P Acquah
Transfer pricing, earnings management and tax avoidance of firms in Ghana
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 259 Posted: 2019
A Antón , F Hernández-Trillo , D Ventosa-Santaulària
Effective tax enforcement and demand for cash
Journal of Macroeconomics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies