Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Takeover Threats, Institutional Ownership, and Investment Efficiency

54 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Yolanda Yulong Wang

Shenzhen Audencia Financial Technology Institute; Audencia Business School

Long Yi

The Education University of Hong Kong

Abstract

We provide a novel framework to understand the complementary role between takeover threats and institutional ownership in effective corporate governance: institutional investors produce information which alleviates the negative impact of takeover threats while takeover threats empower institutional investors. Utilizing exogenous variations of takeover threats, we find consistent evidence with the model in the context of investment efficiency. The complementary relation is stronger towards firms in industries emphasizing short-term earnings. Additional tests reveal the findings are unlikely the result of selection. As a result of the complementary relation, antitakeover provisions are detrimental to corporate governance when institutional ownership is high.

Keywords: Investment efficiency, Institutional ownership, corporate governance, takeover threat.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yolanda and Yi, Long, Takeover Threats, Institutional Ownership, and Investment Efficiency. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "wall street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
E Alanis , S Chava , P Kumar
Shareholder bargaining power, debt overhang, and investment
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 7 , p. 276 - 318 Posted: 2018
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies