Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Tensions in Value-Based Management: A Comparative Case Study in Japanese Companies

38 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Keita Masuya

Keio University - Faculty of Business and Commerce

Date Written: June 09, 2025

Abstract

Previous studies have shown that the more centralized an organization is, the more likely Value-Based Management (VBM) can be integrated into the organization. In contrast, decentralized organizations face a tension: while centralized coordination is necessary for VBM integration, the autonomy of individual units can hinder such efforts. Existing research has not sufficiently addressed how actors responsible for advancing VBM manage this tension. This study analyzes the organizational integration of VBM from the perspective of how organizations deal with the tension between centralization and decentralization, specifically within the context of decentralized organizations. The research adopts a comparative case study approach, examining four Japanese companies that newly introduced Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as a VBM metric. The analysis revealed a mode of coordination different from what prior literature has emphasized—namely, coercive integration through hierarchical control. Firms that successfully integrated VBM did so by combining hierarchical integration with “buffering mechanisms.” These buffering mechanisms were intended to mitigate the downsides of hierarchical integration, such as the reduction of unit-level autonomy and the perception of abrupt change. The two types of buffering mechanisms identified were: “framing,” which involves shaping employees’ perceptions of VBM; and “resource mobilization,” which enables action by providing the necessary support and infrastructure. These findings suggest that, in decentralized organizations, advancing VBM requires paradoxical action—simultaneously enforcing centralized direction and preserving employee autonomy. By identifying behavioral-level factors that enable VBM integration in decentralized contexts, this study advances the existing literature.

Keywords: Value-based management, centralization, decentralization, tension, VBM sophistication

Suggested Citation:

Masuya, Keita, Navigating Tensions in Value-Based Management: A Comparative Case Study in Japanese Companies (June 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4903171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Andriopoulos , M W Lewis
Exploitation-exploration tensions and organizational ambidexterity: Managing paradoxes of innovation
Organization Science , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 696 - 717 Posted: 2009
S M Ansari , P C Fiss , Z J Zajac
Made to fit: How practices vary as they diffuse , volume 35 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 2010
G C Biddle , R M Bowen , J S Wallace
Does EVA® beat earnings? Evidence on associations with stock returns and firm values
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 301 - 336 Posted: 1997
C Brück , B Faltynek , T Knauer , S Schwering
Determinants of the adoption and performance effects of value-based management systems in Germany
SSRN Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
161
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies