Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control, Acquisition Strategy, and Entrepreneurial Orientation in Large and Centralized Firms

31 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Ernst Verwaal

KU Leuven

Anna Pastwa

University of Warsaw

Hans Bruining

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Department of Strategic Management and Entrepreneurship; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Aart Willem Saly

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the role of internal control in the acquisition strategy of large and centralized firms and its consequences for supporting entrepreneurial orientation (EO). Drawing on insights from information processing theory, the authors theorize that internal control contributes to relevant internal and external information for the acquisition decision that helps to focus managerial attention on entrepreneurial opportunities and threats, which can influence the development of EO. The authors further argue that this influence is more substantial for centralized firms because they have a higher need for external entrepreneurial growth and a weaker capability to deal with incompatibilities between the target and the acquiring firm. The authors use confirmatory factor analysis to validate the data structure and multivariate hierarchical regression techniques to test the hypotheses. The results show that robust internal control can enhance the firm’s acquisition strategy to increase EO for large firms and weak internal control can lower EO for large firms, and that these effects are more substantial for centralized firms. Further empirical analysis also suggests a boundary condition in that the impact of acquisitions on EO is nonsignificant for decentralized firms, regardless of the level of internal control.

Keywords: Internal control, Acquisition strategy, Entrepreneurial orientation, Centralization

Suggested Citation:

Verwaal, Ernst and Pastwa, Anna and Bruining, Hans and Saly, Aart Willem, Internal Control, Acquisition Strategy, and Entrepreneurial Orientation in Large and Centralized Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4903170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
S A Alvarez , J B Barney
Discovery and creation: Alternative theories of entrepreneurial action
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 11 - 26 Posted: 2007
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Structural equation modeling in practice: A review and recommended two-step approach
Psychological Bulletin , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 1988
R N Anthony
Planning and control systems: a framework for analysis Posted: 1965
N S Argyres , B S Silverman
R&D, organization structure, and the development of corporate technological knowledge
Strategic Management Journal , volume 25 , issue 8 , p. 929 - 958 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
334
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies