Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder-Oriented Incentives in Managerial Compensation and Corporate Risk-Taking

60 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Jie Chen

Leeds University Business School, University of Leeds

Kevin Keasey

University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Danilo V. Mascia

University of Leeds; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Hoang Ta

Vietnam National University Hanoi

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Using a sample of S&P 500 firms with hand-collected information on the use and substantiveness of CSR managerial compensation from proxy statements between 2000 and 2018, we show that CSR incentives are associated with less risky policy choices and lower volatility. The risk-reduction effect is robust to alternative measures and specifications and various attempts to mitigate endogeneity concerns. Further analysis reveals this effect is stronger when stakeholder interests are more at risk and when the provision of stakeholder-oriented incentives are more likely to be authentic and effective. Exploring the performance implications, we find that CSR incentives improve firm performance, particularly in times of high market uncertainty. Collectively, our evidence suggests that CSR managerial compensation incentivizes prudent risk-taking to safeguard stakeholder interests.

Keywords: Executive compensation, CSR contracting, Sustainability, Risk-taking, Firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jie and Keasey, Kevin and Mascia, Danilo V. and Ta, Hoang, Stakeholder-Oriented Incentives in Managerial Compensation and Corporate Risk-Taking. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4903139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
B J An , A Ang , T G Bali , N Cakici
The joint cross section of stocks and options
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2279 - 2337 Posted: 2014
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
T E Bakke , H Mahmudi , C S Fernando , J M Salas
The causal effect of option pay on corporate risk management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 120 , p. 623 - 643 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
RANK
467,197
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies