Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance Role of Big Data Tax Enforcement: Evidence from Related Party Transaction

57 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Lisha Tan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Liguang Zhang

Sichuan Agricultural University - School of Management

Yunchen Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Liao Peng

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

Related party transactions (RPTs) are the main way of tunneling for controlling shareholders. As big data tech becomes prevalent, we investigate how the big data in tax enforcement affects RPTs. Employing a quasi-natural experiment, we hypothesis and find evidence that the big data in tax enforcement significantly curbs firms’ RPTs. The results remain stable under a series of robustness check. We further find that big data restrict RPTs by reducing the information asymmetry between tax authorities and firms and improving the tax enforcement ability of authorities. The association is stronger in firms suffering from more serious tunneling, worse corporate governance, greater tax avoidance motivation, in more tax enforcement incentive regions, and in more technological developed regions. Moreover, we provide evidence that big data in tax enforcement can significantly improve the firm value of those with a large proportion of RPTs, indicating a corporate governance role of big data tech. This study supplements the empirical evidence for whether RPTs can create firm value and provides certain policy reference significance for government to develop big data technology and strengthen the supervision of RPTs.

Keywords: Key words: Big data, Tax enforcement, RPTs, Corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Lisha and Zhang, Liguang and Wang, Yunchen and Peng, Liao, The Governance Role of Big Data Tax Enforcement: Evidence from Related Party Transaction. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4903169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S Ravindran
Value Implications of Investments in Information Technology
Management Science , volume 52 , issue 9 , p. 1359 - 1376 Posted: 2006
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Do multiple large shareholders play a corporate governance role? Evidence from East Asia
Journal of Financial Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 422 Posted: 2009
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
A M Bauer , X Fang , J A Pittman
The importance of IRS enforcement to stock price crash risk: The role of CEO power and incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 4 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies