Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Restrictions and Search for Income

56 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Matias Lamas

Banco de España

Esther Cáceres García

Banco de España

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We highlight the relevance of dividend payments for bank investors and for banks' stock prices. For identification purposes, we study pandemic-related supervisory restrictions on bank dividends. Using granular data on mutual fund holdings, we find that dividend-oriented funds sold more bank stocks than other funds after the payout limits, while they were less inclined to dispose of other bank-issued income securities. Bank stocks more exposed to dividend-oriented funds experienced more negative abnormal returns around the policy shock. Our work is the first to cleanly identify investor "search for income" from exogenous variation in dividends, and to explore its consequences for asset pricing. We also shed light on some of the implications of dividend restrictions policies, a novel supervisory measure implemented at the onset of the pandemic.

Keywords: Banks, dividends, search for income, abnormal returns, mutual funds

Suggested Citation:

Lamas, Matias and Cáceres García, Esther, Dividend Restrictions and Search for Income. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4903137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4903137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
V Acharya , I Gujral , N Kulkarni , H Shin
Dividends and bank capital in the financial crisis of 2007-2009
Posted: 2011
V Acharya , H Le , N Kulkarni , H Shin
Bank Capital and Dividend Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 988 - 1018 Posted: 2017
D Andreeva , P Bochmann , J Schneider
Evaluating the impact of dividend restrictions on euro area bank market values
Posted: 2023
S Avdjiev , B Bogdanova , P Bolton , W Jiang , A Kartasheva
CoCo issuance and bank fragility
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , p. 593 - 613 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
RANK
534,717
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies