Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Li and Okafor (2024). Tax Employee Careers and Corporate Tax Outcomes

European Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

Posted: 27 Aug 2024 Last revised: 26 Oct 2024

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Date Written: July 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine how corporate tax outcomes, consisting of tax avoidance and tax risk, relate to the career outcomes of employees who work in the tax department. Using tax employee data obtained from the professional networking website LinkedIn, we find that both tax avoidance and tax risk are linked to tax employee career outcomes. Specifically, we find that tax employees' turnover is positively associated with adverse tax outcomes, evidenced through lower tax avoidance or higher tax risk. Moreover, we find that the employment gap for tax employees after exiting the firm is positively associated with these adverse tax outcomes. Lastly, we find that the probability of an external promotion for a tax employee upon joining a new firm is negatively associated with the adverse tax outcomes faced by the previous employer. Collectively, these results suggest that tax employees may experience negative career outcomes when their firms face adverse tax performance. Our study highlights the consequences that tax avoidance and tax risk may have on the individuals who produce these outcomes. Our study also sheds light on the incentives that drive tax employees to cooperate with their firm's tax-related objectives.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, tax risk, human capital, turnover, labor market

Declaration of Interest

Authors declare they have no conflict of interest.

Funder Statement

The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support received from the Ted Rogers School of Management.

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi, Li and Okafor (2024). Tax Employee Careers and Corporate Tax Outcomes (July 24, 2024). European Accounting Review (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies