Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Relative Performance Evaluation Affects Accounting Conservatism: An Agency and Tournament Perspective

45 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Xunzhuo Xi

City University of Macau

Feng Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kevin Ow Yong

Singapore Institute of Technology

Desmond Chun Yip Yuen

University of Macau

Abstract

We investigate whether relative performance evaluation (RPE) in compensation contracts affects firms’ conservative financial reporting. Using the propensity score matching approach, we show that accounting- based RPE firms exhibit less timely loss recognition than non-RPE and equity-based RPE firms. Both agency and tournament theories provide plausible explanations for this finding. We find that firms facing greater common risks reduce accounting conservatism after RPE adoption. This is consistent with agency explanation that RPE, as an efficient incentive scheme, removes common shocks from managerial performance. Such risk-sharing benefits decrease agency costs and the demand for conservatism as a substitutive governance mechanism. In support of tournament incentives, we find that firms which perform poorly in the earlier years of performance measurement period will delay loss recognition in the last year to exceed their peers’ performance. Moreover, less conservative reporting enables firms to meet or barely beat peer performance to win the tournament. In addition, the negative association between RPE usage and accounting conservatism is more pronounced when less capable CEOs’ external job opportunities decrease after the adoption of Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine. Lastly, we find that RPE firms with less conservative reporting have higher firm valuation, implying that pay contracting efficiency resulting from reduced agency costs dominates managerial opportunism due to tournament incentives. Overall, our findings offer new insights into the consequences of RPE usage and provide further evidence on compensation contracting as a determinant of accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Relative performance evaluation, Accounting conservatism, Agency costs, Tournament incentives

Suggested Citation:

Xi, Xunzhuo and Tang, Feng and Yong, Kevin Ow and Yuen, Desmond Chun Yip, How Relative Performance Evaluation Affects Accounting Conservatism: An Agency and Tournament Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4904048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside Employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good News
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S G Ryan
Debiasing the measurement of conditional conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
302
RANK
798,750
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies