Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does More Prominent Presentation Format Improve Information Usefulness?Limited Attention and Information Quality Effects

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Rong Huang

University of Macau

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Feng Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Desmond Chun Yip Yuen

University of Macau

Abstract

We investigate how the presentation format of other comprehensive income (OCI) affects the market’s information use in China. US-based studies suggest that a more prominent placement in the statement of comprehensive income (SCI), rather than in the statement of shareholders’ equity (SSE), lowers the usefulness of OCI information for investors. The negative market consequence is contrary to the expected benefits of accounting standard-setters. To explore the “puzzle,” we focus on the Chinese context where the effect of reporting format is expected to be more salient, because of higher alleviation of limited investor attention (“limited attention effect”) and greater improvement in the quality of OCI information (“information quality effect”). In a sample of Chinese A-share firms, we document that the change in the reporting location of OCI from SSE to SCI enhances its value relevance. Consistent with the limited attention mechanism, we find that the market benefit is stronger for firms with less investor attention, proxied by lower analyst forecast frequency, less media coverage, and lower institutional ownership.

Keywords: Presentation Format, other comprehensive income, Value relevance, Limited Attention, information transparency

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rong and Liu, Ming and Tang, Feng and Yuen, Desmond Chun Yip, Does More Prominent Presentation Format Improve Information Usefulness?Limited Attention and Information Quality Effects. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904717 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4904717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
A S Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
Aimr
Financial reporting in the 1990's and beyond Posted: 1993
E Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. versus Non-U Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies