Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Freedom of Speech and Employee Disclosure

45 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2024 Last revised: 17 Jan 2025

Jens Böke

University of Münster

Brigham Brau

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Junyoung Jeong

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: July 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine how freedom of speech protections affect the nature and extent of employee disclosure. We examine anti-strategic lawsuit against public participation (anti-SLAPP) laws, which punish lawsuits that censor critics. We examine the effect of anti-SLAPP laws using a within firm-year design that compares employee disclosures for the same firm at the same point in time. Employee disclosures protected by anti-SLAPP laws are more negative, provide lower ratings, and are more likely to discuss issues with discrimination, ethics and fraud, safety, and management. These discussions appear to credibly reveal underlying issues, as anti-SLAPP laws create a strong relation between safety and fraud violations and employee discussions of the same types of issues. Consistent with an employee behavior mechanism for the results, the relation between anti-SLAPP laws and negative discussions is greater for reviews left by individuals more likely aware of the anti-SLAPP laws, such as attorneys. Consistent with a protection from censorship mechanism, negative discussions protected by anti-SLAPP laws are less likely to be removed from an employee disclosure website. Finally, anti-SLAPP laws appear to improve employee sorting by decreasing the time it takes to fill jobs when there are no disclosures discussing sensitive topics.

Keywords: Employee disclosure, labor markets, social media, freedom of speech JEL classification: E24, G34, G41, M41

JEL Classification: E24, G34, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Böke, Jens and Brau, Brigham and Glaeser, Stephen and Jeong, Junyoung, Freedom of Speech and Employee Disclosure (July 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E G
Posted: 2024-06-02
Imbens ; Angrist , Angrist , Armstrong
Glaeser and Guay Posted: 1995
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
J D Angrist , G W Imbens
Two-stage least squares estimation of average causal effects in models with variable treatment intensity
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 90 , issue 430 , p. 431 - 442 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,404
RANK
134,500
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies