Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Your Money May Sting: The Effect of Extraterritorial FCPA Enforcement on Foreign Firms' Borrowings from US Banks

61 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2024

Bingyi Qin

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: July 21, 2024

Abstract

Using a stacked difference-indifferences analysis of a large sample of international syndicated loans, we show that the extraterritorial enforcement of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in foreign OECD countries reduces borrowings from US banks by firms in those countries. The effect is stronger for borrowing firms with operations in high-corruption countries, those in countries with a greater cultural difference or geographical distance from the US, or those in countries with greater credit availability. In addition, the reduction is concentrated among US lead banks and US non-relationship banks. Furthermore, we find that domestic banks in foreign OECD countries that experience FCPA enforcement capture a portion of the market share previously held by US banks. Finally, we show that FCPA enforcement is associated with a decline in US banks' short-term operating performance. Overall, our results suggest that foreign firms in enforced OECD countries may be less inclined to borrow from US banks because borrowing from US banks could further increase their enforcement risk and compliance cost in association with the FCPA.

Keywords: Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), extraterritorial enforcement, loan syndicate structure, international loan market, anti-corruption

Suggested Citation:

Qin, Bingyi and Wang, Ke and Wang, Zheng and Williams, Christopher D., Your Money May Sting: The Effect of Extraterritorial FCPA Enforcement on Foreign Firms' Borrowings from US Banks (July 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4905413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4905413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information costs and home bias: An analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Y Amihud , K Garbade , M Kahan
A new governance structure for corporate bonds
Stanford Law Review , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 492 Posted: 1999
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
727
RANK
481,162
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies