Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate governance, firm strategy disclosure, and executive compensation

Accounting and Business Research, 2024


52 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2024

Anna Agapova

Florida Atlantic University; Florida Atlantic University

Nikanor Volkov

Mercer University

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

We empirically investigate the relation between the quality of corporate governance and the propensity of executives to offer investors guidance on firm strategy. Using a hand-collected data set, we demonstrate that companies with lower managerial entrenchment, i.e., better corporate governance, are less likely to disclose strategic information. This result is contrary to the traditional agency argument, but consistent with investor-management disagreement theory (Thakor, 2015). Per disagreement theory, better-governed firms have less incentive to disclose such information. By not sharing information pertaining to their strategies, these firms reduce the probability that investors who disagree with their plans will deny them funding. Our empirical results also suggest that executives who do offer guidance on their firm’s strategy receive higher compensation. 

Keywords: disclosure of information on firm strategy, information asymmetry, investor-management disagreement, corporate governance, executive compensation, firm strategy

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Agapova, Anna and Volkov, Nikanor, Corporate governance, firm strategy disclosure, and executive compensation (May 28, 2024). Accounting and Business Research, 2024
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4905694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
A Agapova , J Madura
Information leakage prior to company issued guidance
Financial Management , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 623 - 646 Posted: 2011
A Agapova , J Madura
Impact of the Galleon case on insider trading prior to company issued guidance
Journal of Applied Finance , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 36 - 51 Posted: 2013
A Agapova , J Madura
Market uncertainty and earnings guidance
Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 61 , p. 97 - 111 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
609,870
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies