Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of ESG Performance on Corporate Credit Risk and Sustainable Development

28 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2024

Runqian Luo

Ningbo University

Susheng Ding

Ningbo University

Brian M. Lucey

Trinity Business School, Trinity College Dublin

Min Du

Edinburgh Napier University

Abstract

This paper investigates how ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) ratings influence credit risk for Chinese publicly listed companies between 2013 and 2022. Firstly, our findings reveal that superior performance in the environmental and social dimensions significantly reduces corporate credit risk. In other words, strong environmental and social practices provide substantial support in mitigating firm credit risk. Secondly, we observe that the impact of ESG ratings on firm credit risk varies across companies of different sizes, suggesting valuable research implications for sustainable corporate development strategies. Our study indicates that policymakers should encourage transparency and disclosure of ESG-related information, as this will help companies achieve sustainable development goals. Additionally, our research highlights the potential role of ESG ratings as a tool for investors and financial institutions to assess and manage the credit variability of companies, allowing them to optimize investment and lending decisions accordingly.

Keywords: ESG performance, Credit Risk, Dual carbon targets, Sustainable Development Goals

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Runqian and Ding, Susheng and Lucey, Brian M. and Du, Min, The Impact of ESG Performance on Corporate Credit Risk and Sustainable Development. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4906827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4906827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
K Bai , K Jing , T Li
Corporate ESG Performance and Stock Pledge Risk
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2024
L Bonacorsi , V Cerasi , P Galfrascoli , M Manera
ESG Factors and Firms' Credit Risk
Journal of Climate Finance , volume 6 Posted: 2024
K Bouslah , J Liñares-Zegarra , B M'zali , B Scholtens
CEO risk-taking incentives and socially irresponsible activities
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , p. 76 - 92 Posted: 2018
E Bruno , G Iacoviello , C Giannetti
Bank credit loss and ESG performance
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
420,501
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies