Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Behavior and Financial Well-Being of Working Students in a State University: Financial Literacy as Moderating Factor

This paper is published at Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research

17 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2024

Henry Rufino

Tarlac State University

Marie Franchette Wage

Tarlac State University

Karold Saludez

Tarlac State University

Jay-Ar Anunciacion

Tarlac State University

Almario Jr. Imperial

Tarlac State University

Lyka Castillo

Tarlac State University

Date Written: June 25, 2024

Abstract

This study delves into the intricate relationship between financial behavior and financial well-being among working students with financial attitude, internal locus of control, and financial knowledge as financial literacy moderators. The investigation focused on 113 working students enrolled in seven distinct programs at Tarlac State University – College of Business and Accountancy. Using correlation and regression analysis, the study found that financial behavior, financial attitude, internal locus of control, as well as financial knowledge, were significantly correlated and influenced financial well-being of the working students. Notably, in the moderation analysis, the study also revealed that the influence of financial behavior on financial well-being is partially moderated by financial knowledge. Working learners with higher financial knowledge exhibit a more pronounced progressive influence of financial behavior on their financial well-being, emphasizing the importance of financial education in enhancing contentment or satisfaction on financial status. Contrarily, both financial attitude and internal locus of control did not exhibit a moderating effect on the relationship between financial behavior and financial well-being. This emphasizes the importance of financial education in helping working students make wise financial decisions and practices. Addressing the factors identified in this study could contribute to the holistic development and welfare of working students.

Keywords: Financial Well-Being, Financial Behavior, Financial Literacy, Working students

Declaration of Interest

No financial relationship

Funder Statement

Personal funding

Suggested Citation:

Rufino, Henry and Wage, Marie Franchette and Saludez, Karold and Anunciacion, Jay-Ar and Imperial, Almario Jr. and Castillo, Lyka, Financial Behavior and Financial Well-Being of Working Students in a State University: Financial Literacy as Moderating Factor (June 25, 2024). This paper is published at Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4906363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Abbas , M Ali , M Nohong , M Sobarsyah
Predicting the Financial Behavior of the Religious Organization Board in Indonesia
The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics, and Business , volume 7 , issue 12 , p. 1159 - 1166 Posted: 2020
I G Adiputra
The Influence of Financial Literacy, Financial Attitude and Locus of Control on Financial Satisfaction: Evidence from the Community in Jakarta
KnE Social Sciences Posted: 2021
I G Adiputra , N Suprastha , L Tania
The Influence Of Financial Knowledge, Financial Attitude Dan Locus Of Control On Financial Behavior Of E-Wallet Users In Jakarta
Journal of Contemporary Issues in Business and Government , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 3318 - 3332 Posted: 2021
J Antipolo
Balancing school and work amidst a pandemic: Working students' time management
United International Journal for Research & Technology (UIJRT) , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 63 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,851
RANK
74,422
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial Literacy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies