Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Shift from Voluntary to Mandatory Climate Reporting: The Role of Carbon Accounting

32 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2024

Qingliang Tang

Western Sydney University

Abstract

The transition from voluntary to mandatory carbon reporting (also refers to climate reporting) poses serious challenges for accounting professionals aiming to support firms in achieving net-zero goals. The papers included in the Special Issue address the topics that are currently bewildering accounting academics and professional accountants on how to make accounting as a useful tool for the management to achieve a carbon neutral business model. Whereas this editorial note explores the evolving role of carbon accounting within corporate financial reporting systems, emphasizing its integration as a crucial component. Key challenges addressed include data availability, climate risk assessment, defining reporting boundaries, selecting appropriate greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting methodologies, and integrating climate-related events into traditional financial statements. A dynamic, integrated carbon accounting framework is proposed to facilitate this transformative process effectively. Furthermore, the note identifies critical knowledge gaps and sets forth a research agenda aimed at enhancing transparency and relevance in carbon accounting and reporting systems, thereby empowering informed decision-making. The purpose of the note is to succinctly capture the essence of carbon accounting practice in the transitional period, focusing on the challenges, proposed solutions, and future research directions in the realm of carbon accounting and mandatory climate reporting.

Keywords: Mandatory carbon reporting, Carbon accounting, Corporate financial reporting, Net zero target

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Qingliang, Managing the Shift from Voluntary to Mandatory Climate Reporting: The Role of Carbon Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4906826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4906826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
J Andrew , C Cortese
Accounting for climate change and the self-regulation of carbon disclosures
Accounting Forum , volume 35 , p. 130 - 138 Posted: 2011
F Ascui
A review of carbon accounting in the social and environmental accounting literature: What can it contribute to the debate?
Social and Environmental Accountability Journal , volume 34 , p. 6 - 28 Posted: 2014
F Ascui , H Lovell
As frames collide: Making sense of carbon accounting
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 24 , p. 978 - 999 Posted: 2011
D Baboukardos
Market valuation of greenhouse gas emissions under a mandatory reporting regime: Evidence from the UK. Accounting Forum , volume 41 , p. 221 - 233 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
649,230
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies