Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects of Corporate ESG Activities: Evidence from Mandatory ESG Disclosure Regulations

48 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2024 Last revised: 18 Mar 2025

Weishi Jia

Cleveland State University - Monte Ahuja College of Business

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Danlei Bonnie Yu

Soochow University

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

We examine the peer effects of corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities in an international context. We consider U.S. multinational enterprises (MNEs) operating in foreign host countries and local firms in those countries as peer firms, as they both operate within the same host market. This novel perspective allows us to leverage the staggered introduction of mandatory ESG disclosure regulations in foreign host countries as an exogenous shock, as these regulations apply exclusively to local firms and not to U.S. MNEs. Focusing on philanthropic giving as a key component of firms' ESG portfolios, we find that U.S. MNEs adopt local mimetic isomorphism whereby they emulate the pro-social behavior of their local peers and increase their donations in the host country, even though they are not legally obligated to do so. In addition, we find that post-mandate donation increases are particularly pronounced for host countries crucial to the firms' operating portfolio, as well as for firms with higher liability of foreignness (LOF), greater media coverage by local outlets, and stronger reliance on governmental contracts. Furthermore, post-mandate donations enhance U.S. MNEs' ability to retain governmental contracts and improve their media sentiment in the host country, subsequently contributing to higher firm valuation.

Keywords: Peer Effects of Corporate ESG Activities: Evidence from Mandatory ESG Disclosure Regulations ESG reporting, Peer effects, Spillover effects, U.S. MNEs, Philanthropic giving, Corporate donations, Liability of foreignness

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Weishi and Tsang, Albert and Yu, Danlei Bonnie and Zhao, Jingran, Peer Effects of Corporate ESG Activities: Evidence from Mandatory ESG Disclosure Regulations (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4907333 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4907333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Andrew C Baker , David F Larcker , Y Charles C , Wang
How Much Should We Trust Staggered Difference-in-Differences Estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Luis Ballesteros , Catherine Magelssen
Institutional Disruptions and the Philanthropy of Multinational Firms
Organization Science , volume 33 , p. 1501 - 1522 Posted: 2022
R Bell , Igor Greg , Abdul A Filatotchev , Rasheed
The Liability of Foreignness in Capital Markets: Sources and Remedies
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 43 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 2012
Marianne Bertrand , Esther Duflo , Sendhil Mullainathan
How Much Should We Trust Differences-in-Differences Estimates?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
413,842
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies