Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judge Ideology and CEO Compensation

63 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024 Last revised: 11 Mar 2025

Ashrafee T Hossain

Memorial University of Newfoundland (MUN) - Faculty of Business Administration

Abdullah-Al Masum

Johnson C. Smith University

Hatem Rjiba

PSB Paris School of Business

Date Written: March 11, 2025

Abstract

We demonstrate that liberal judicial ideology, measured by the prevalence of circuit judges appointed by Democratic presidents, correlates with higher CEO compensation in public companies within those judicial circuits. This aligns with the compensating wage differential theory, as CEOs demand higher pay to manage the increased litigation risks associated with liberal courts. Robustness and identification tests confirm these findings, and we show that higher compensation is driven by CEO talent and risk-taking rather than rent-seeking behavior. Additionally, the presence of liberal prosecutors amplifies this effect. Notably, we find that increased CEO compensation under liberal circuits does not harm shareholder value.

Keywords: Judge ideology, Liberal courts, CEO compensation, Shareholder value G30

Declaration of Interest

Conflict of interest. The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.

Ethics Approval

n/a

Funder Statement

Hossain thanks Memorial University of Newfoundland and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC, Grant #430-2020-00275) for providing financial support.

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Ashrafee T and Masum, Abdullah Al and Rjiba, Hatem, Judge Ideology and CEO Compensation (March 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4908105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
J C Adams , S A Mansi , T Nishikawa
Internal governance mechanisms and operational performance: Evidence from index mutual funds
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1261 - 1286 Posted: 2010
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
RANK
580,030
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies