Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Economic Effects of Mandatory Non-Financial Disclosure: International Evidence

62 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024 Last revised: 7 Sep 2025

Tung Lam Dang

The University of Danang

Duc Trung Do

Bangor University

Thang Ho

University of Bradford School of Management

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: July 29, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the impact of mandatory environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosures on real investment efficiency, measured as the sensitivity of corporate investment to Tobin’s q. Using a dataset including firms in 61 countries and a difference-in-differences framework, we document an increase in investment-q sensitivity following the adoption of ESG disclosure regulations. This association is more likely due to managerial learning from the market than other alternative explanations. Our analysis shows that mandatory ESG disclosures lead to a higher probability of informed trading and greater incorporation of earnings information into prices before public announcements, consistent with prices being more informative to managers due to the crowding in of external information gathering after the non-financial disclosure mandates. Further, we find that the enhanced investment-q sensitivity is more pronounced in firms and industries where learning is more likely to be stronger. Overall, our evidence supports the view that mandatory ESG disclosures positively affect the real economy.   

Keywords: mandatory ESG disclosures, investment-q sensitivity, real investment efficiency, managerial learning, information acquisition JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dang, Tung Lam and Do, Duc Trung and Ho, Thang and Zhang, Bohui, The Real Economic Effects of Mandatory Non-Financial Disclosure: International Evidence (July 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4908861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4908861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
F Allen , C Mayer , X Vives
Stock markets and resource allocation
Capital Markets and Financial Intermediation , p. 81 - 115 Posted: 1993
E Allman , J Won
The effect of ESG disclosure on corporate investment efficiency Posted: 2022
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
T E Bakke , T M Whited
Which firms follow the market? An analysis of corporate investment decisions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 1941 - 1980 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
478,373
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies