Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Governmental Environmental Responsibility and Corporate Greenwashing: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from China

41 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2024

Chao Feng

Chongqing University

Ying Wang

Chongqing University

Xi Cheng

Chongqing University

Abstract

The issue of greenwashing in Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Disclosure has addressed global concerns in recent years. However, whether governmental environmental responsibility alleviates greenwashing remains unclear, especially for Asian economies. To explore the role of local government in it, we adopt a difference-in-differences (DID) approach to study the effect of the Natural Resources Accountability Audit (NRAA) on corporate greenwashing behavior. Based on a dataset of heavily polluted listed firms in China from 2010 to 2021, this study shows that the implementation of NRAA significantly reduces corporate greenwashing practices and ensures the reliability of corporate ESG disclosure. Intuitively, we find that environmental accountability of local government eliminates corporate greenwashing through stimulating more site visits of institutional investors, revealing the importance of external stakeholders in shaping corporate disclosure strategies. Further analysis on corporate environmental irresponsibility verifies that enterprises curtail greenwashing practices for their internal pursuit of legitimacy. Additionally, this study reveals that NRAA works more effectively for state-owned and politically unconnected enterprises and those in regions with more advanced marketization and economic development, revealing different degrees of dedications across local governments with regard to their environmental responsibilities. Our conclusions serve to extend signaling and legitimacy theory, supplying valuable implications for the elimination of corporate greenwashing practices.

Keywords: Greenwashing, ESG Disclosure, Institutional Investor, Corporate Site Visit, Environmental Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Chao and Wang, Ying and Cheng, Xi, Local Governmental Environmental Responsibility and Corporate Greenwashing: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4911326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
R Ambarish , K John , J Williams
Efficient signalling with dividends and investments
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1987
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
Lectures on public economics: Updated edition Posted: 2015
M Baldini , L D Maso , G Liberatore , F Mazzi , S Terzani
Role of country-and firm-level determinants in environmental, social, and governance disclosure
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 150 , p. 79 - 98 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
805,600
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies