Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rhetorical Nationalism and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Insights from China

13 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2024

Pantelis Kazakis

University of Glasgow

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the unexplored nexus between rhetorical nationalism and corporate tax avoidance. Analyzing Chinese firms from 2010 to 2022, it shows that companies with pronounced nationalistic rhetoric are significantly more prone to engage in tax avoidance. This finding highlights the profound impact of nationalistic sentiments on corporate financial strategies. The result holds through an instrumental variables approach, with an even stronger effect observed among stateowned enterprises. This research offers insights for policymakers and scholars interested in the intersection of nationalism and corporate behavior, paving the way for those looking to understand the drivers of tax avoidance.

Keywords: rhetorical nationalism, tax avoidance, China

JEL Classification: G38, H26, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kazakis, Pantelis, Rhetorical Nationalism and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Insights from China (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4911695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
G B Gorton , A K Zentefis
Corporate culture as a theory of the firm
Economica , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2024
C He , Y Li , J Zhu
The effect of firm-level perception of uncertainty on innovation: Evidence from China's listed firms
Economics Letters , volume 221 Posted: 2022
X Lan , B G Li
The economics of nationalism
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 294 - 325 Posted: 2015
C Lubinski , R D Wadhwani
Geopolitical jockeying: Economic nationalism and multinational strategy in historical perspective
Strategic Management Journal , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 400 - 421 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
564,093
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies