Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corrupt Practice and Sustainability Reporting: Lifecycle Perspective

46 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2024

Saleh F. A. Khatib

Universiti Teknologi Malaysia

Date Written: June 15, 2024

Abstract

The study employs a lifecycle perspective to investigate the relationship between corrupt practices and sustainability reporting. The final sample is composed of 1388 firms from 4 European countries, namely France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Sweden. Data was retrieved from the Thomson Reuters database from 2015 to 2022. The findings revealed that corruption significantly reduces sustainability disclosure across different life cycle stages, albeit with varying magnitudes, perhaps due to the misallocation of resources and lack of incentives. The findings also showed that the detrimental effects of corruption on sustainability reporting is most profound during the "Shake-Out" stage of a company life cycle. By adopting a lifecycle perspective, the research offers a new and in-depth understanding of corruption's impact on environmental disclosure, offering policymakers and regulators valuable insights into enhancing environmental and sustainability practices.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability Disclosure, Corruption, Environmental Reporting, Transparency, Europe

Suggested Citation:

Khatib, Saleh F. A., Corrupt Practice and Sustainability Reporting: Lifecycle Perspective (June 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4913623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4913623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Ahmed , M Anifowose
Corruption, corporate governance, and sustainable development goals in Africa
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society Posted: 2023-07
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
CEO Compensation and Sustainability Reporting Assurance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 158 , issue 1 , p. 233 - 252 Posted: 2019
H Al Amosh , S F A Khatib , H Ananzeh
Terrorist attacks and environmental social and governance performance: Evidence from cross-country panel data
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2023-06
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure in Developed and Developing Countries: A Literature Review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Abdallah A. S. Fayad , Saleh F. A. Khatib , Abdulrahman Alomair , Abdulaziz S. Al Naim
Audit Chair Characteristics and ESG Disclosure: Evidence from the Saudi Stock Market
Sustainability , volume 16 , issue 24 , p. 11011 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
RANK
798,750
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies