Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lenders' Demand for Consolidating Financial Statements from Parent Borrowers

Forthcoming in Journal of Financial Reporting

51 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024 Last revised: 18 Jan 2025

Nicholas Krupa

Clemson University

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Mark Zakota

University of Maryland

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: December 18, 2024

Abstract

For financial reporting, a parent corporation is required to provide consolidated financial statements, treating the parent and its majority-owned subsidiaries as one reporting entity. Loan contracts, however, are signed by legal entities. We investigate when lenders explicitly require a parent borrower to periodically provide consolidating financial statements—disaggregated information with the parent’s information in the first column and the consolidated information in the last column—during the term of a loan. We find that 28.1% of the loan contracts include this covenant. The covenant is more likely when borrower-lender information asymmetry is higher; the loan is secured by collaterals or subsidiary pledges or guaranteed by subsidiaries; the borrower has heterogenous subsidiaries or is smaller; or the loan has a revolving line of credit, fewer lenders, or a longer duration. Our findings suggest that lenders use contracting features to address the loss of information in the consolidated financial reporting model. 

Keywords: consolidated financial reporting, Debt contracting, limited liability, substantive consolidation, consolidating financial statements, loans

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Nicholas and Tucker, Jennifer and Zakota, Mark and Zhou, Ying, Lenders' Demand for Consolidating Financial Statements from Parent Borrowers (December 18, 2024). Forthcoming in Journal of Financial Reporting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4914695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
B Akins , D De Angelis , M Gaulin
Debt contracting on management
The Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 2095 - 2137 Posted: 2020
H Almeida , C Kim , H Kim
Internal capital markets in business groups: Evidence from the Asian financial crisis
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 6 , p. 2539 - 2586 Posted: 2015
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
S Bainbridge , M Henderson
Limited Liability. A Legal and Economic Analysis Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
556
RANK
649,230
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies