Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Salaries on Display: Unintended Consequences of Wage Disclosure

61 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024 Last revised: 25 Aug 2025

Junyoung Jeong

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether wage disclosure assists employers in suppressing wages. Economic theories suggest that wage disclosure might facilitate wage coordination among employers by aiding coordination and monitoring for deviations, especially in highly concentrated labor markets. Using the U.S. Department of Labor's public disclosure of wage information as a natural experiment, I find that disclosure contributes to wage suppression in these highly concentrated markets. Additionally, a policy change to real-time disclosure of Labor Condition Applications (LCAs) reveals further wage suppression. To demonstrate that disclosure is the main driver of wage suppression, I conduct cross-sectional tests, which show that the effect is more pronounced in markets where wage variability decreases post-disclosure and in industries with lower union presence. Mechanism tests suggest that employer coordination contributes significantly to this suppression, particularly in jobs with high task heterogeneity and variability. These findings suggest that wage disclosure enables employers in concentrated markets to tacitly coordinate and suppress wages.

Keywords: disclosure, transparency, labor markets, wage, coordination

Suggested Citation:

Jeong, Junyoung, Salaries on Display: Unintended Consequences of Wage Disclosure (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4914096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
V Delabastita , M Rubens
Colluding against workers
Journal of Political Economy , volume 133 , p. 1796 - 1839 Posted: 2025
H Allcott , K Barnes , ; S Glied , B Handel , ; , G Kim
The Impact of Price (Charge) Transparency in Outpatient Provider Markets Posted: 2021
D H Autor , D Dorn , ; , G H Hanson
The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the United States
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 2121 - 2168 Posted: 2013
Y Awaya , V Krishna , V
On Communication and Collusion
American Economic Review , volume 106 , p. 285 - 315 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,806
RANK
29,543
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies