Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Treatment of Digital Assets in Insolvency

Oxford Handbook of Digital Assets and the Law (Jason G. Allen, Simon Gleeson, Peter Hunn and Eva Micheler eds, Oxford University Press, Forthcoming, 2026)


Singapore Management University School of Law Research Paper Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024 Last revised: 27 Jul 2025

Nydia Remolina

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Management University - Centre for Digital Law

Aurelio Gurrea-Martínez

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Daniel Liu

WongPartnership LLP

Date Written: August 04, 2024

Abstract

This article provides a comprehensive analysis of the treatment of digital assets in insolvency. Given that cryptoassets can be the subject of various transactions—including purchase, sale, custody, and lending—understanding their nature and implications in insolvency is relevant for any firm, not just cryptoexchanges. The article begins by offering a general overview of the world of cryptoassets. It then examines the nature of cryptoassets from accounting, financial, and legal perspectives. While much of the literature on insolvency and cryptoassets has primarily focused on the analysis of whether cryptocurrencies constitute property of the estate, this article explores additional issues, such as the treatment, role and rights of tokenholders in insolvency, the initiation of insolvency proceedings by cryptolenders, and the valuation, recovery, and realization of digital assets in bankruptcy. Such analysis is conducted from a comparative perspective, examining how jurisdictions around the world have addressed some of those issues and how cryptoassets have been used to engineer innovative solutions in restructuring agreements. 

Suggested Citation:

Remolina, Nydia and Gurrea-Martínez, Aurelio and Liu, Daniel, The Treatment of Digital Assets in Insolvency (August 04, 2024). Oxford Handbook of Digital Assets and the Law (Jason G. Allen, Simon Gleeson, Peter Hunn and Eva Micheler eds, Oxford University Press, Forthcoming, 2026)
, Singapore Management University School of Law Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4915592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4915592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
See International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation Posted: 2024-04
Gurrea-Martinez , Remolina
, p. 136 - 141
Gurrea-Martinez , Remolina
, p. 149 - 151
Tara Pakrouh , Eric Monzo
Bankruptcy Courts' Role In Shaping Crypto's Legal Framework Posted: 2024-04-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
872
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
63,359
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University Yong Pung How School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies