Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data quality in the spotlight: the impact of heterogeneous corporate carbon footprint models

19 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Jaime Oliver Huidobro

Clarity AI Europe S.L.

Francesca Lipari

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Ignacio Tamarit

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: March 15, 2023

Abstract

Global warming is a substantial issue, and addressing it requires robust data on corporate environmental performance. Quantifying the current level of emissions is of paramount importance. Yet, the accuracy of emissions information is challenged by three factors: an information gap in indirect emissions-particularly Scope 3 emissions-due to the small number of reporting companies, greenwashing practices, and low comparability among firms. We propose a modified EEIO-LCA model for estimating corporate Scope 3 emissions following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol framework. Our approach provides a robust model at the company level while maintaining the comparability and transparency needed for decision-making. We observe a significant aggregate misalignment concerning self-disclosed data from the Carbon Disclosure Project. Our analysis indicates that this bias is partially related to poor environmental management practices in firm disclosures, which we proxy by factoring in the verification status of firms' reports. This work calls for greater scrutiny in Scope 3 reporting to ensure the accuracy of emission data and promote better environmental management practices.

Keywords: Climate change Corporate carbon footprints Machine learning Corporate energy use. JEL codes: G17, Q51, Q52, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Oliver Huidobro, Jaime and Lipari, Francesca and Tamarit, Ignacio, Data quality in the spotlight: the impact of heterogeneous corporate carbon footprint models (March 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4916000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4916000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
P Arias
Climate change 2021: The physical science basis. contribution of working group14 i to the sixth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change; technical summary Posted: 2021
C A Tracker
Warming projections global update Posted: 2021-11
M Allen
Special report: Global warming of 1.5 c. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Posted: 2018
T Wiedmann
Carbon footprint and input-output analysis-an introduction Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
798,750
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies