Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board-Level Employee Representation and Corporate Sustainability:​A Focus on Executive Compensation Programs

35 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2024

Sandra Cavaco

Université Paris II - Panthéon-Assas

Patricia Crifo

Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau - Department of Economics; CREST-ENSAE; Center for Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organization (CIRANO)

Antoine Rebérioux

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of board-level employee representation (BLER) on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) contracting, specifically the integration of precise non-financial criteria into top executive officers’ compensation. We use the enactment of two laws (in 2013 and 2015) that mandated the presence of employee directors in large French companies to identify a causal impact in a staggered difference-in-differences design. Our findings show that the appointment of employee directors significantly increases the likelihood of implementing CSR contracting, especially when these directors are members of the compensation committee. However, we also find a modest impact of BLER on overall non-financial performance. These results suggest that while the influence of employee representatives may be limited due to their small number (usually 1 or 2), they can still impact specific, dedicated tasks within the firm. This study opens up avenues for future research to delve deeper into the role of employee representation in corporate governance and CSR contracting.

Keywords: board-level employee participation, corporate social responsibility contracting, executive compensation, compensation committee, staggered difference-in-differences

Suggested Citation:

Cavaco, Sandra and Crifo, Patricia and Rebérioux, Antoine, Board-Level Employee Representation and Corporate Sustainability:​A Focus on Executive Compensation Programs. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4917171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
S Aresu , R Hooghiemstra , A Melis
Integration of CSR Criteria into Executive Compensation Contracts: A Cross-Country Analysis
Journal of Management , volume 49 , issue 8 , p. 2766 - 2804 Posted: 2023
S Bainbridge
In Defence of the Shareholder Wealth Maximization Norm
Washington & Lee Law Review , volume 50 , p. 1423 - 1447 Posted: 1993
B Balsmeier , A Bermig , A Dilger
Corporate Governance and Employee Power in the Boardroom: An Applied Game Theoretic Analysis
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 91 , p. 51 - 74 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies