Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit and Disclosure Requirements on Tax Avoidance in Private Firms: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

57 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2024

Heesun Chung

Hanyang University

Sunhwa Choi

Seoul National University - Business School

Doyoung Kim

Hanyang University

Abstract

This study examines the effect of audit and disclosure requirements on tax avoidance in private firms. We leverage a quasi-natural experiment in South Korea, where audits and public disclosure requirements were introduced for a subset of private firms. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that the audit and disclosure mandate significantly decreases both conforming and non-conforming tax avoidance. Our findings indicate that the decrease in both types of tax avoidance is more pronounced for firms audited by industry specialists and those with high reputation concerns. We examine the interplay between these two mechanisms and find that the decrease in non-conforming tax avoidance is significant only when both mechanisms are in place. However, conforming tax avoidance decreases for firms audited by industry specialists, regardless of whether their reputation concerns are high or low. These findings suggest that the effects of the new mandate vary among firms and across different types of tax avoidance. The results of this study enhance our understanding of tax practices in private firms and contribute to the ongoing discussions on the costs and benefits of reporting regulations for private firms.

Keywords: private firms, mandatory audits, tax avoidance, Disclosure, auditor industry expertise, reputation costs.

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Heesun and Choi, Sunhwa and Kim, Doyoung, The Effect of Audit and Disclosure Requirements on Tax Avoidance in Private Firms: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4919598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
C J D Armstrong , D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 Posted: 2022
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax boycotts , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
819,493
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies