Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategically Timed Voluntary Disclosures before Conferences: Global Evidence

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2024-176

Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting Research

54 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2024 Last revised: 29 Nov 2024

Shiheng Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Emily Jing Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 08, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how firms strategically time their voluntary disclosures before attending conferences in the global market. We document four findings. First, conference firms provide more voluntary disclosures of positive news and experience better stock performance in the month before conferences than in the month after. Second, firms that attend low-visibility conferences, have limited conference experience, face greater shareholder pressure, or have less concentrated ownership are more likely to increase their voluntary disclosures of positive news before conferences. Third, non-U.S. firms domiciled in jurisdictions with stronger investor protection and financial institutions are more likely to increase their voluntary disclosures of positive news and experience a stock price run-up before conferences. Finally, positive news disclosures before conferences attract more favorable market reactions to conference presentations and greater analyst following and institutional holdings. Overall, conference firms in the global market strategically coordinate their disclosures to maximize the economic impacts of conference attendance. 

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Shiheng and Wang, Emily Jing, Strategically Timed Voluntary Disclosures before Conferences: Global Evidence (August 08, 2024). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2024-176, Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4919959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4919959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: Evidence from international cross-listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
B M Barber , T Ordean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
D Bazhutov , A Betzer , F Brochet , M Boumet , P Limbach
The supply and effectiveness of investor relations in insider-vs. outsider-oriented markets
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 660 - 683 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
481,162
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies