Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Array of Domestic and Foreign Tax Haven Location Decisions for U.S. Multinational Firms

48 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Bradley P. Lindsey

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 30, 2024

Abstract

We investigate U.S. multinational firms’ relative use of foreign and/or U.S. domestic tax havens (i.e., Delaware) and the determinants of these choices. Using Exhibit 21 data on the geographic locations of subsidiaries from 1996 through 2020, we examine the relative importance of firm-level economic characteristics for firms’ choices to utilize only domestic tax havens, only foreign tax havens, or both types of tax havens. We find that a surprisingly high percentage of U.S. multinationals (around 25 percent) choose to utilize only domestic tax havens and that state tax planning opportunities are the most important driver of this choice. We also find that greater financial constraints, lower income mobility, and more frequent foreign losses increase firms’ propensity to use domestic tax havens. Finally, we provide evidence on how the array and determinants of foreign and domestic tax havens changes following the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). We find some weak evidence that firms increased their use of domestic tax havens after TCJA, but we find very little change in the determinants of firms’ tax haven choices in the post TCJA period. This study is of interest to tax policymakers and academic researchers as firms’ use of both foreign and domestic tax havens are highly scrutinized by noncorporate stakeholders. 

JEL Classification: G38, H26, H71, F23

Suggested Citation:

Lewellen, Christina and Lindsey, Bradley P., An Investigation of the Array of Domestic and Foreign Tax Haven Location Decisions for U.S. Multinational Firms (June 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4919019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4919019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Where will they go if we go territorial? Dividend exemption and the location decisions of U.S. multinational corporations
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 787 - 808 Posted: 2001
H J Amberger , L Robinson
The initial effect of U.S. tax reform on foreign acquisitions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 996 - 1038 Posted: 2024
T J Atwood , T P Johnson
U.S. Multinational Corporations' Initial Income-Shifting Response to the TCJA Posted: 2021
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
Firms' Decisions Where to Incorporate
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 383 - 425 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
531,260
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies