Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Government Environmental Audit Improve Green Innovation

48 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2024

Jianhua Tan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xinyue Zhou

Nanjing Audit University

Min Hua

Shanghai Business School

Kam C. Chan

Western Kentucky University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

We explore how the implementation of a government environmental audit (GEA) affects corporate green innovations. A GEA is a government audit program that targets environmental issues in a country. Using the 2009 GEA of China as an exogenous event and a sample of Chinese firms from 2001 to 2020, we use a difference-in-differences research design to conduct our analysis. The results indicate more green innovation outcomes in heavy-polluting firms than non-heavy-polluting firms after the GEA’s implementation. We find that corporate environmental investments and the environmental penalty are transmission channels for the impact of GEA on green innovations. Additional analyses suggest that the effects are stronger for firms in regions governed by officials with strong career incentives, located in regions with low level of marketization, facing a low financial constraint, or belonging to a highly competitive industry. Most importantly, we show that implementing GEA can improve firms’ market return and firm value.

Keywords: government environmental audit, Green innovation, economic consequence

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Jianhua and Zhou, Xinyue and Hua, Min and Chan, Johnny, Can Government Environmental Audit Improve Green Innovation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4920764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 Posted: 1986
C H Chang
The influence of corporate environmental ethics on competitive advantage: The mediation role of green innovation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 104 , issue 3 , p. 361 - 370 Posted: 2011
S S Chen , Y Wang
Financial constraints and share repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 311 - 331 Posted: 2012
Y S Chen
Green organizational identity: Sources and consequence
Management Decision , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 384 - 404 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
291
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies