Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bottom Falls Out: Competition for Capital and Financial Statement Assurance

39 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Anik Choudhury

Drexel University - Department of Accounting and Tax

Anthony P. Curatola

Drexel University

Date Written: August 06, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether the use of financial statement assurance (FSA) among capital seekers changes after the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) amends Regulation Crowdfunding and increases the U.S. equity crowdfunding market's maximum campaign target from $1,070,000 to $5,000,000. Using manually collected data from Regulation Crowdfunding campaign filings from the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval database, we find evidence suggesting that this amendment discourages incremental investment in FSA, which has further downstream effects as it adversely impacts campaign outcomes as campaigns attract less investors to fund their campaign. These results imply that there are unintended consequences to the SEC's amendment and, as a result, the amendment needs to be reexamined. This study's findings contribute to the accounting literature by examining the impact of increased competition among capital seekers on their use of FSA.

Keywords: Equity Crowdfunding, Assurance, Audits, Reviews, Voluntary Auditor Attestations

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Choudhury, Anik and Curatola, Anthony Paul, The Bottom Falls Out: Competition for Capital and Financial Statement Assurance (August 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4920004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4920004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
G K C Ahlers , D Cumming , C Günther , D Schweizer
Signaling in equity crowdfunding. Entrepreneurship: Theory and pract , volume 39 , p. 955 - 980 Posted: 2015
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
Account. Rev , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
J D Alois , Crowdfund Insider
$239 Million Was Raised Using Reg CF during 2020
This Amount Could Double in 2021 Posted: 2021-03
B A Badertscher , J Kim , W R Kinney , E Owens
Assurance level choice, CPA fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from U.S. private firms
J. Account. Econ , volume 75 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies