Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"Should CEOS' Salaries Be Capped?" a Survey Experiment on Limitarian Preferences

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17171

72 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

João V. Ferreira

University of Southampton

Stratos Ramoglou

University of Southampton

Foivos Savva

University of Southampton

Michael Vlassopoulos

University of Southampton; IZA -- Institute for the Study of Labor

Abstract

This paper investigates preferences for limiting top incomes and wealth through a survey-based experiment with a large sample of participants (N = 3,954) from the US and Germany. Using a revealed preferences approach, we find that a significant majority (around 85%) of participants support income limits (have limitarian preferences). Importantly, we also find that a large share of these participants are driven by inequality aversion (weak limitarians), while a significant proportion of participants (around 30%) support limits irrespective of inequality (strong limitarians). Preferences for wealth caps are more polarized than for income caps, with higher shares of strong limitarians and those who oppose limits (non-limitarians). Notably, our participant classification predicts "real-world" voting behavior in a petition that required effort to sign. In terms of underlying motivations, strong limitarians exhibit less concern about the negative impacts of limits on economic efficiency, are less inclined to attribute top incomes and wealth to merit, are more supportive of government redistribution, and are more concerned about the effects of wealth concentration on corruption and the environment. These findings have important implications for economic theories of social preferences and can inform policy discussions around CEO compensation and wealth taxation.

Keywords: CEO compensation, limitarianism, limitarian preferences, income cap, wealth cap, wealth taxation

JEL Classification: D3, D6, D9, H2, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, João V. and Ramoglou, Stratos and Savva, Foivos and Vlassopoulos, Michael, "Should CEOS' Salaries Be Capped?" a Survey Experiment on Limitarian Preferences. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17171, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4920353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies