Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain-Induced Supply Chain Transparency and Firm Performance: The Role of Capacity Utilization

35 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2024 Last revised: 16 Oct 2025

ShinWoo Lee

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Gil Sadka

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: August 02, 2024

Abstract

This study empirically investigates how blockchain adoption affects firm profitability. Employing a quasi-experimental design triggered by regulatory changes across the United States, we provide novel empirical evidence to recent theory, proposing that blockchain adoption increases profitability when capacity utilization is low and reduces profitability when capacity utilization is high. Pinpointing the economic channel, we further demonstrate that blockchain-enabled transparency affects firms’ profitability by reducing costs, with no significant effect on firms’ sales. Finally, we expand the discussion on the effects of blockchain adoption by moving beyond theory to highlight that competition between manufacturers and buyers is a key factor in understanding the impact of blockchain on firms. Collectively, our study is one of remarkably few large sample empirical papers examining the implications of blockchain adoption for firm performance, therefore, providing timely insights into the impact of emerging supply-chain technologies in companies.

Keywords: Supply Chain, Smart Contracts, Capacity Utilization, Blockchain

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, O16

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Shin Woo and Pinto, Jedson and Rabetti, Daniel and Sadka, Gil, Blockchain-Induced Supply Chain Transparency and Firm Performance: The Role of Capacity Utilization (August 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4921795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4921795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for bombs: The predictability of on-chain transfers for terrorist attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
K S Anand , M Goyal
Strategic information management under leakage in a supply chain
Management Science , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 438 - 452 Posted: 2009
D Aobdia
Employee mobility, noncompete agreements, product-market competition, and company disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 296 - 346 Posted: 2018
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Supply chains and segment profitability: How input pricing creates a latent cross-segment subsidy
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 805 - 824 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
153,527
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies