Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm and Engagement Performance Metrics and Auditor Contracting Decisions

42 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2024

Dennis Ahn

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Radhika Lunawat

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Patricia Wellmeyer

UC Irvine/The Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: September 14, 2024

Abstract

In hopes of motivating stakeholder audit engagement decisions and audit firm competition based on audit quality, the PCAOB has proposed a requirement that registered accounting firms publicly disclose a standardized set of audit performance metrics. A fundamental premise of this proposal is that stakeholders will value and reward auditors for higher performance, thereby motivating firms to continually invest in higher audit quality. We test this premise by examining the auditor selection and pricing decisions of practicing CFOs and board members when presented with a set of standardized audit quality metrics for two bidding firms. Given shareholders are often involved in auditor ratification decisions, we also examine the selection and pricing decisions of individual investors. Results show that while all stakeholders seem to make selection decisions favoring auditors with higher quality metric disclosures, they are generally unwilling to reward the reporting of higher metrics with higher fees. We also report differences among stakeholder groups in how they use information from such disclosures. Our study contributes to the PCAOB's ongoing evaluation of mandated firm quality metric disclosures and provides important insights into how these disclosures may potentially impact audit market allocation decisions.

Keywords: Auditor choice, audit fees, firm and engagement metrics, market for audit quality

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Dennis and Lunawat, Radhika and Wellmeyer, Patricia, Firm and Engagement Performance Metrics and Auditor Contracting Decisions (September 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4921444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4921444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Elizabeth Almer , Donna R Dreike , Kathleen Philbrick , Rupley Hertz
What Drives Auditor Selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. A26 - 42 Posted: 2014
Daniel Aobdia , Nemit Shroff
Regulatory Oversight and Auditor Market Share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
Sharad Asthana , Inder Khurana , K K Raman
Fee Competition among Big 4 Auditors and Audit Quality
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 403 - 438 Posted: 2019
Ann G Backof
The Impact of Audit Evidence Documentation on Jurors' Negligence Verdicts and Damage Awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
662,989
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies