Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AML/CFT Regulations and Informal Remittance Services: The Case of Hawala

Posted: 13 Sep 2024

S. G. Sisira Dharmasri Jayasekara

Central Bank of Sri Lanka

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

Informal remittance channels operate in various jurisdictions to promote illegal activities which are detrimental to the global efforts of combating money laundering. Here, in this chapter, Hawala is considered the main informal remittance channel. The economic and social implications of Hawala are very significant when it comes to a weak regime of AML/CFT. Therefore, the focus of this chapter is on weak AML/CFT regimes even though the discussed practices take place across the globe. A global initiative to limit or control informal remittance channels may support the global initiatives of anti-money laundering. However, it has also to bear in mind that informal remittance services are used globally as a very efficient and low-cost remittance channel despite the allegations of using them by criminals. Therefore, it is very important to implement proper systems and controls to regulate informal remittance channels while making them available for all segments of society.

Keywords: FATF, Money Value Transfer Services (MVTS), Informal Remittance Channels, Uncial, Financial Institutions

JEL Classification: G28, K20, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jayasekara, S. G. Sisira Dharmasri and Rafay, Abdul, AML/CFT Regulations and Informal Remittance Services: The Case of Hawala (August 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4922492
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies