Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects of Corporate Disclosures-Evidence from the Registration-based IPO System in China

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-200

50 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2024

Ruilin Liu

Capital University of Economics and Business

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Dan Li

Tsinghua University - School of Economics and Management

Zheyuan Zhang

Renmin University of China

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

China launched the registration-based IPO system in 2019 whereby all firms listed on the newly established STAR board ("peer firms") are required to disclose specific innovation and industry-related information in their prospectus. Using this event as a quasi-experiment, our study investigates the causal effects of peer firms' disclosures on individual firms' disclosure strategy. We find that individual firms' management earnings forecast (MEF) precision, both its form and width, significantly decreases when peer firms disclose more information during the IPO period. In cross-sectional analyses, we find this effect to be more pronounced for individual firms that are likely to experience greater competitive pressure from industry peer firms, and firms with higher risks and performance uncertainty that make them more cautious to external competitive pressure. This result suggests that peer firms' disclosures induce greater competitive pressure and uncertainty about future firm performance, triggering managers of individual firms to adopt a more cautious disclosure strategy. Overall, our study extends the literature on the peer effects in corporate disclosure decisions and documents potential unintended consequences of mandatory disclosure policies.

Keywords: spillover effect, management earnings forecast, registration-based IPO system, mandatory disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Ruilin and Goh, Beng Wee and Li, Dan and Zhang, Zheyuan, Peer Effects of Corporate Disclosures-Evidence from the Registration-based IPO System in China (May 01, 2024). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-200, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4922718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4922718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Akhigbe , S F Borde , A M Whyte
Does an industry effect exist for initial public offerings
Financial Review , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 531 - 551 Posted: 2003
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1938 Posted: 2021
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J L Zhu , M Amstad , G Sun , W Xiong
The development of the Chinese stock market
The Handbook of China's Financial System Posted: 2020
J S Ang , Y Ma
Transparency in Chinese stocks: A study of earnings forecasts by professional analysts
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 155 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
RANK
439,204
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies