Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Policy Uncertainty, Carbon Emissions and Firm Valuation: International Evidence

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2024.101453 

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2024

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Searat Ali

University of Wollongong; University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Abdullah Al Mamun

University of Wollongong

Millicent Chang

University of Wollongong

Date Written: August 12, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores how the uncertainty surrounding economic policies affects the decisions managers make, particularly with reference to carbon emissions. Notably, this is a pioneering effort as very few studies have examined the influence of economic policy uncertainty on decisions about either carbon emissions or renewable energy, and, in turn, the impact of these decisions on firm value. From a sample spanning 22 countries over the period 2007 to 2018, our results show that, while carbon emissions increase with policy uncertainty, this relationship is mediated by renewable energy consumption. Country factors such as climate change performance, emissions trading schemes, and business culture also affect this relationship. In countries where economic policy uncertainty tends to be high, firms generally have a lower market value, due in part to higher levels of carbon emissions. These findings highlight the importance of connecting policy uncertainty to decisions about carbon emissions and renewable energy. They also provide insights into the detrimental effects of policy uncertainty on firm value.

Keywords: Economic Policy Uncertainty, Carbon Emissions and Firm Valuation: International Evidence economic policy uncertainty, carbon emissions, international, renewable energy, firm valuation JEL classification: G32, Carbon emissions, International, Renewable energy, Firm valuation

JEL Classification: G32, Q51, M14

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Shams, Syed and Ali, Searat and Ali, Searat and Al Mamun, Abdullah and Chang, Millicent, Economic Policy Uncertainty, Carbon Emissions and Firm Valuation: International Evidence (August 12, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2024.101453 , British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4923286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4923286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
K R Abbasi , F F Adedoyin
Do energy use and economic policy uncertainty affect CO2 emissions in China? Empirical evidence from the dynamic ARDL simulation approach
Environmental Science and Pollution Research , volume 28 , issue 18 , p. 23323 - 23335 Posted: 2021
M Abdouli , S Hammami
Investigating the causality links between environmental quality, foreign direct investment and economic growth in MENA countries
International Business Review , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 264 - 278 Posted: 2017
S Adams , F Adedoyin , E Olaniran , F V Bekun
Energy consumption, economic policy uncertainty and carbon emissions: Causality evidence from resource rich economies
Economic Analysis and Policy , volume 68 , p. 179 - 190 Posted: 2020
F F Adedoyin , A Zakari
Energy consumption, economic expansion, and CO2 emission in the UK: The role of economic policy uncertainty
Science of The Total Environment , volume 738 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
RANK
687,436
3 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies