Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Sanctions Taxation, Knowledge of Taxation Inclusion Andtaxation Fairness Towards Msme Taxpayer Compliance

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Sep 2024

David Pangaribuan

Independent

Date Written: August 13, 2024

Abstract

Abstract This research aims to analyze and empirically test the research hypothesis of the influence of strict sanctions, knowledge and fairness of the tax system on taxpayer compliance. Theresearch used quantitative methods with a sample of 100 respondents using the Slovin technique. Data collection used a questionnaire which was distributed directly to respondents, namely MSME taxpayers in the North Bekasi area. The research results show that the strictness of sanctions, knowledge and fairness of taxation have a positive effect on Taxpayer Compliance. The implication of the research is that the implementation of strict sanctions in tax regulations can reduce the deviant actions of taxpayers. The aim of providing these sanctions is to educate taxpayers' behavior so that they become taxpayers who are aware and proud to be taxpayers. Good tax knowledge can change negative perceptions into positive ones regarding the tax system, tax management and the role and function of tax in development. Positive perceptions can be aimed at awareness and pride in participating in development. Furthermore, fair treatment in the tax system will encourage appreciation and recognition of policies and implementation by the tax authorities, increase sympathy for taxpayers and this will have a positive impact on taxpayer compliance. It is recommended for future researchers to link the topic of taxpayer compliance with factors of service quality, empowerment and providing incentives, and socialization of tax norms and tax socialization.

Suggested Citation:

Pangaribuan, David, The Effect of Sanctions Taxation, Knowledge of Taxation Inclusion Andtaxation Fairness Towards Msme Taxpayer Compliance (August 13, 2024). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4924108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies