Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Authority Monitoring and Corporate Non-Financial Misconduct

57 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2024 Last revised: 30 Aug 2025

Duke Ferguson

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Robert Hills

Pennsylvania State University

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: August 30, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether heightened tax authority oversight deters or exacerbates managers’ actions that lead to non-financial misconduct. Theory offers conflicting predictions: while enhanced monitoring improves a firm’s information environment and raises detection risk—potentially discouraging misconduct—it also increases expected tax burdens and constrains accrual-based earnings management. This may intensify performance pressure while limiting managers’ flexibility to manage earnings, prompting a shift toward real activities management, such as overworking employees or implementing cuts to expenditures including safety measures, which can lead to misconduct. Using a sample of U.S. public firms for 2000-2019, we find that IRS monitoring is positively associated with both the incidence and severity of non-financial violations. Consistent with prior research, we find that IRS monitoring improves accounting quality. However, IRS monitoring also induces real activities management, which drives the observed increase in misconduct. Additional analyses reveal that the increase in misconduct is strongest when tax costs are high and governance is weak. In line with the underlying tension, the association between monitoring and misconduct reverses for firms where information gains dominate cost pressure. Overall, our results highlight a previously unexplored spillover of tax oversight affecting non-traditional stakeholders.

Keywords: corporate misconduct, compliance costs, tax monitoring, real activities management

JEL Classification: M41, H26, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Duke and Hills, Robert and Krupa, Trent, Tax Authority Monitoring and Corporate Non-Financial Misconduct (August 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4925990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
A M Bauer , X Fang , J A Pittman
The importance of IRS enforcement to stock price crash risk: The role of CEO power and incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 4 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 2021
A Belnap , J L Hoopes , E L Maydew , A Turk
Real effects of tax audits
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 665 - 700 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,266
RANK
218,186
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies