Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reservoir or Crowding Out: The Impact of Corporate Financial Asset Allocation on Audit Fees

38 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2024

周 会

Yunnan Minzu University

Pengzhen Lou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xi Gao

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Jingnan Ding

Yunnan Minzu University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of corporate financial asset allocation on audit fees, considering the reservoir effect and crowding-out effect associated with financial asset allocation. The study identifies an overall U-shaped relationship between corporate financial asset allocation and audit fees. When financial asset allocation is relatively low, the reservoir effect reduces audit fees. However, as financial asset allocation increases beyond a certain threshold, the crowding-out effect leads to higher audit fees. This conclusion remains robust after undergoing a series of robustness tests. The analysis of the transmission mechanism indicates that financial asset allocation influences audit fees through financing constraints. Furthermore, the heterogeneity analysis reveals that both ownership concentration and the nature of ownership positively moderate this relationship. The research findings clearly illustrate the "double-edged sword" effect and mechanism of financial asset allocation on audit fees, filling a gap in the existing literature regarding the nonlinear relationship between the two. This study provides new empirical evidence for audit pricing decisions and offers references for preventing and mitigating financial risks while promoting a shift from "virtual to real" in the economy from an audit perspective.

Keywords: Financial Asset Allocation, Reservoir Effect, Crowding-Out Effect, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

会, 周 and Lou, Pengzhen and Gao, Xi and Ding, Jingnan, Reservoir or Crowding Out: The Impact of Corporate Financial Asset Allocation on Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
E Stockhammer , L Grafl
Financial uncertainty and business investment , volume 22 , p. 551 - 568 Posted: 2010
H J Seo , H S Kim , Y C Kim
Financialization and the slowdown in Korean firms
R&D investment. Asian Economic Papers , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 2012
K A Akkemik , Ş Özen
Macroeconomic and institutional determinants of financialisation of non-financial firms: Case study of Turkey
Socio-Economic Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 98 Posted: 2014
C W Smith , R M Stulz
The determinants of firms' hedging policies
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 405 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies