Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lead Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility Dynamics: The Power of Women in Board Leadership

61 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2024

Carol Alexander

University of Sussex Business School; Exponential Science Foundation

David Javakhadze

Florida Atlantic University

Tijana Rajkovic

San Jose State University

Abstract

We investigate how the presence of a lead director, and a female one in particular, influences corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, addressing critical gaps in CSR studies by examining this overlooked aspect of board leadership. We find that having a lead director, and especially a female, is positively linked to CSR performance. We further demonstrate that improvements in the information environment and board monitoring are channels of influence. Finally, we uncover evidence of the performance implications. Our findings underscore the substantial impact of a female leader in a key board position on enhancing CSR outcomes and firm performance.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Lead Director, Board Structure.

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Carol and Javakhadze, David and Rajkovic, Tijana, Lead Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility Dynamics: The Power of Women in Board Leadership. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4925591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K Ahern , A Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
P Arlow
Personal characteristics in college students' evaluations of business ethics and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 10 , p. 63 - 69 Posted: 1991
Y Bao , J Li
Cross-border M&A, gender-equal culture, and board gender diversity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 84 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
RANK
889,053
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies