Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Ownership, Options and Stock Market Performance

39 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2024

Zihao Qu

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)

Guang Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study employs an empirical analysis to systematically examine the relationship between CEO shareholding percentages, option holding levels, and company stock market performance. First, various investment portfolios are constructed based on CEO shareholdings and option holdings, categorized using the Fama-French five-factor model for factor analysis. The results indicate that higher CEO equity and option holdings often drive firms to pursue greater maximization of company value, resulting in higher profitability and investment risks. Second, it is found that moderate CEO shareholding percentages (with positive α values in the shareholding percentage group) help reduce agency problems, enhance company value, and achieve excess returns. However, when CEO shareholding reaches high levels (such as the highest shareholding group with a negative α of -0.0257), it exacerbates the "entrenchment effect," leading to decisions driven by personal interests that harm company and shareholder interests, thereby reducing the company's investment value. Finally, corporate governance and management quality moderated this relationship, with stronger management capabilities benefiting from moderate shareholdings. Conversely, those with weaker management capabilities struggle to mitigate agency costs, even at moderate shareholding levels.

Keywords: CEO share and option holding, Fama-French five-factor model, Entrenchment effect, Corporate governance, Management quality

Suggested Citation:

Qu, Zihao and Qu, Zihao and Zhang, Guang, CEO Ownership, Options and Stock Market Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
N Brisley
Executive stock options: Early exercise provisions and risk-taking incentives
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 5 , p. 2487 - 2509 Posted: 2006
P Brockman , X Martin , E Unlu
Executive compensation and the maturity structure of corporate debt
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 1123 - 1161 Posted: 2010
S Bryan , L Hwang , S Lilien
CEO stock-based compensation: An empirical analysis of incentive-intensity, relative mix, and economic determinants
The Journal of Business , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 661 - 693 Posted: 2000
N Burns , S Kedia
The impact of performance-based compensation on misreporting
Journal of financial economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 67 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
465
RANK
662,989
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies