Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Peer Effects Under Common Ownership

50 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2024

Chengcheng Li

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Xiaoqiong Wang

Jacksonville State University

Feifei Zhu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This paper examines the peer effects of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) activities under common ownership, focusing on firms from different industries and diverse locations. We find that firms commonly held by institutional investors tend to comove in their ESG activities even after excluding industry and location links. These findings are robust after controlling for endogeneity concerns. We demonstrate that common owners actively shape ESG practices, leading to greater ESG alignment among their portfolio firms through both ``voice" and ``exit" strategies. Additionally, the ESG peer effects are stronger in highly competitive industries and those with high stakeholder sensitivity. Our overall results underscore the monitoring role of common institutional investors.

Keywords: ESG, Peer Effects, Common Ownership, Monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chengcheng and Wang, Xiaoqiong and Zhu, Feifei, ESG Peer Effects Under Common Ownership. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Industries with high regulatory or reputational costs are those with the following SIC codes , volume 4900 Posted: 1781
High customer sensitivity industries are classified as those in the following four-digit SIC code ranges: (0,999) , volume 3000 Posted: 2000
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "wall street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-u relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
545,411
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies