Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Equivalents

The paper will be published in Boris I. Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates & Gifts (Thomson Reuters 2024) (forthcoming)

36 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024

Lawrence Lokken

University of Florida College of Law

Date Written: August 13, 2024

Abstract

Foreign investors are generally subject to a 30 percent tax on dividends received from U.S. companies. Through various derivative instruments and transactions, an investor can achieve the financial equivalent  of an investment in a U.S. stock, without actually owning the stock. The U.S. Congress decided in 2010 that an investor receiving a "dividend equivalent" through such a derivative investment should be taxed on this receipt as though it actually were a dividend. Implementation of this decision has proven to be difficult. After several iterations of regulations under the relevant statutory provisions, the Treasury and the IRS have most recently announced that the regulations will become fully effective in the year 2027. This article explaining the regulations is a draft of materials to be included in the treatise, Boris I. Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates, and Gifts.


Keywords: Dividends

Suggested Citation:

Lokken, Lawrence, Dividend Equivalents (August 13, 2024). The paper will be published in Boris I. Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates & Gifts (Thomson Reuters 2024) (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4926827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
underlying security (USCo stock) results in an equal increase or decrease in the contract's value
Reg
, p. 1441 - 1441
Reg
§1 , p. 871 - 886
Reg
, p. 1441 - 1442
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
538
RANK
658,366
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies