Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality, the 'Reasonable Investor,' and the SEC's New Climate-Related Disclosures Rule

The University of Chicago Business Law Review Online Edition

14 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024 Last revised: 26 Jun 2025

Bernard S. Sharfman

Law & Economics Center at George Mason University’s Antonin Scalia Law School

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

The touchstone of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) new rule on climate-related disclosures, The Enhancement and Standardization of Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors (the “Rule”),  is materiality.  As Cyndy Posner pointed out, there are over 1,000 references to material or materiality in the Rule.  Such an approach must have pleased those commentators who feared the Rule would result in public companies being burden with providing costly disclosures of non-material information and investors being overwhelmed with information they do not need or want.  

Understanding materiality is not straightforward.  Much relies on knowing what a “reasonable investor” finds of importance in a particular context.  In the Rule the SEC makes clear that climate-related disclosures will only be required when they provide information on a public company’s material “climate-related risks”— “the actual or potential negative impacts of climate-related conditions and events on a registrant’s business, results of operations, or financial condition.”  Looking only at the impact “on a registrant’s business, results of operations, or financial condition” and no further also means that the SEC has determined that in the context of the Rule a “reasonable investor” only attaches importance to climate-related disclosures that helps her evaluate the material financial risks involved in investing in securities, not e.g., the impact on the environment caused by the public company’s greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions.      

In this writing the Rule’s exclusive focus on climate-related risks will be applied to what appears to be ambiguous language that the Rule uses in its discussion of GHG emissions disclosures.  This language appears to expand the basis for GHG disclosures behind the need to inform investors of climate-related risks.  It is argued here that under the U.S. Supreme Court cases of Auer v. Robbins  and, the more recent, Kisor v. Wilkie,  this would not be possible.        



Keywords: SEC, rulemaking, climate-related disclosures, Securities Act of 1933, Securities Exchange Act of 1934, materiality, Auer deference, climate-related risks, Scope 1 and 2 emissions

Suggested Citation:

Sharfman, Bernard S., Materiality, the 'Reasonable Investor,' and the SEC's New Climate-Related Disclosures Rule (August 15, 2024). The University of Chicago Business Law Review Online Edition, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4926848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
L Elad , Roisman
Can the SEC Make ESG Rules that Are Sustainable?
U.S. Sec. and Exch. Comm'n Posted: 2021-06-22
Id
Sean J Griffith
What's "Controversial" About ESG? A Theory of Compelled Commercial Speech Under the First Amendment, 101 Neb
L. Rev , volume 876 Posted: 2023
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
821
RANK
401,016
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies