Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manipulating Statistics to Justify Biased Reports

49 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2024

Cody Lu

University of Massachusetts Lowell - Department of Accounting

Jeremiah W. Bentley

University of Oklahoma - School of Accounting

Abstract

We investigate how the ability to manipulate statistics affects advisors’ tendency to provide biased capital investment recommendations to advisees. We build on theory in deception and persuasion stating that people have a preference to both be honest and to appear honest, which can sometimes conflict with their financial self-interest. We present several findings. First, advisors actively manipulate statistics to support their desired recommendation. Second, more favorable statistics are associated with stronger recommendations, especially when statistics are shown to advisees (i.e., advisors rely on favorable statistics to justify strong recommendations). Third, consistent with advisors trying to appear honest and unbiased, we find that when statistics are more manipulable, advisors temper their recommendations. Finally, advisees’ welfare is highest when statistics are less manipulable and are shown to advisees. The implications of this study inform both theory and practice by showing how the ability to manipulate statistics affects advisors’ capital investment recommendations and advisees’ welfare.

Keywords: advisor-advisee interactions, agency theory, bias, statistics manipulation, deception, incentives, persuasion

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Cody and Bentley, Jeremiah W., Manipulating Statistics to Justify Biased Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Abeler , D Nosenzo , C Raymond
Preferences for truth-telling
Econometrica , volume 87 , issue 4 , p. 1115 - 1153 Posted: 2019
L F Ackert , B K Church , M Shehata
An experimental examination of the effects of forecast bias on individuals' use of forecasted information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 42 Posted: 1997
J Andreoni , B D Bernheim
Social image and the 50-50 norm: A theoretical and experimental analysis of audience effects
Econometrica , volume 77 , issue 5 , p. 1607 - 1636 Posted: 2009
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
642
RANK
411,549
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies