Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Name Change and Short-Term Financing

51 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2024

Godfred Afrifa

University of Kent

Ernest Gyapong

Alfaisal University

Abstract

Using a sample of 114,913 firm-year observations for the period 2004 to 2022, this paper provides comprehensive evidence of how corporate name change influences the use of short-term (ST) bank credit and trade credit. The results show that firms that change their names endure credit rationing from their banks; however, trade suppliers offer generous trade credit for such firms. Specifically, the findings indicate that firm name change has a negative (positive) effect on ST bank credit (trade credit) use. The findings are consistent with the argument that the effect of information asymmetry is more pronounced in bank lending than in trade credit supply. Further analyses suggest that the less (more) use of ST bank credit (trade credit) is more pronounced for radical name change than minor and brand name change, respectively. Nevertheless, whereas the increased use of trade credit post-name change is value-decreasing, that of bank credit is value-increasing. Our results are robust to several tests for the control of endogeneity issues.

Keywords: Corporate name change, Trade credit, trade receivables, trade payables, Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Afrifa, Godfred and Gyapong, Ernest, Corporate Name Change and Short-Term Financing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
D Abad , J P Sánchez-Ballesta , J Yagüe
The short-term debt choice under asymmetric information , volume 8 , p. 261 - 285 Posted: 2017
Y Abdulla , V A Dang , A Khurshed
Suppliers' listing status and trade credit provision
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 60 Posted: 2020
Y Abdulla , V A Dang , A Khurshed
Suppliers' listing status and trade credit provision
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 60 Posted: 2020
L F Ackert , B K Church , J Tompkins , P Zhang ; Afrifa , G A , E Gyapong
What's in a Name? An Experimental Examination of Investment Behavior*
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 246 - 266 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies