Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Relations for the Rest of Us: Engaging with Retail Investors

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-218

1 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024

Jin Kyung Choi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Lu Qiu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Yue Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 01, 2024

Abstract

Using a Fintech platform (SAY) that crowdsources questions from retail investors for earnings calls, we explore retail investors' information demand and investigate whether responding to such demand increases retail interest. Through topic modeling analysis, we find that retail investors have different information needs from analysts. In particular, retail investors have greater enquiries on dividend policy, stakeholders, and product and technology, while analysts focus on financial performance and macroeconomic condition. Managers address retail investors' information demand by answering top-voted questions and adjusting their earnings call presentations. Retail interest, measured by the intensity of Reddit posts, rises post-SAY adoption, especially when firms are more responsive to retail queries. Overall, our study suggests that understanding and responding to retail investors' unique information demand serve as effective investor relations activities that enhance interest from retail investors. 

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jin Kyung and Huang, Allen H. and Qiu, Lu and Zheng, Yue, Investor Relations for the Rest of Us: Engaging with Retail Investors (August 01, 2024). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-218, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4927167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
RANK
275,154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies