Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why is Accounting Information a Poor Predictor of Creditor Losses Given Default?

53 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Robert Hills

Pennsylvania State University

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Katherine Schipper

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine the relations between accounting information and both ex ante assessments of creditor losses given default (LGD) and realized losses, benchmarking against the relation between accounting information and ex ante assessments of default probability (PD). We find accounting information explains substantial (little) variation in PD (LGD). Adjusting for noncash income items strengthens the relation with PD, and adjusting for goodwill and intangibles slightly improves the weak association with LGD. We find that intangible assets and cash flow generating ability are associated with smaller realized losses and less costly default resolution mechanisms. In fresh-start reporting asset remeasurements, we find intangible assets but not property, plant and equipment are frequently remeasured upwards, often by considerable amounts. Collectively, our results suggest cash flow generating ability and intangible assets are more important than tangible assets for creditor recoveries, and point to the potential usefulness to creditors of more information about obligors' intangible assets.

Keywords: Creditor Losses, Creditor Recoveries, Intangible Assets, Fresh-Start Reporting, Debt Valuation

JEL Classification: G33, G32, M41, E22

Suggested Citation:

Hills, Robert and Kubic, Matthew and Schipper, Katherine, Why is Accounting Information a Poor Predictor of Creditor Losses Given Default? (August 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4927749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
L Ajzenman , T Marshella , S Veseli , P Lotter
Loss Given Default for Speculative-Grade Companies: Moody's Investors Service Posted: 2015
A A Aleszczyk , F P Vasvari , D Vyas
The Debt Market Role of Asset Valuation Uncertainty Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
RANK
392,891
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies