Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Factors Matter? Analyzing the Relationships between Firm Characteristics and ESG Scores.

16 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2024 Last revised: 29 Oct 2024

C. N. V. Krishnan

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Banking & Finance

Jiemin Yang

Case Western Reserve University

Xiyao Tan

Case Western Reserve University - Weatherhead School of Management

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

We used three different databases that cover different years from 2006 through 2023 that provide different insights into the associations of firm features with their E, S, and G scores, as well as the composite ESG score. We find that large market capitalization firms are associated with higher ESG and environmental scores as well as with ESG‐related strengths. These associations likely stem from the increased scrutiny and expectations from investors, regulators, and the public for large‐ cap firms. However, we find that changes in ESG scores have no significant associations with changes in basic firm characteristics—market cap, growth options, or profitability. That is, changes in ESG scores over time do not seem to significantly enhance or alter these basic features of a firm.

Keywords: ESG, Environmental, Social, Governance, Market capitalization, Book-to-Market ratio, Profitability, ESG Strengths, ESG Concerns

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, C. N. V. and Yang, Jiemin and Tan, Xiyao, Do Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Factors Matter? Analyzing the Relationships between Firm Characteristics and ESG Scores. (October 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4927995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Account. Forum , volume 32 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
K M Amaeshi , O K Osuji , P Nnodim
Corporate Social Responsibility in Supply Chains of Global Brands: A Boundaryless Responsibility? Clarifications, Exceptions and Implications
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 81 , p. 223 - 234 Posted: 2008
M L Barnett , M S Robert
Does it pay to be really good? Addressing the shape of the relationship between social and financial performance
Strateg. Manag. J , volume 33 , p. 1304 - 1320 Posted: 2012
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,106
RANK
281,769
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies