Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Reputational Exposure and Corporate Dividend Policy: International Evidence

51 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2024

Anh-Tuan Le

National Central University

Thao Tran

Ho Chi Minh City University of Economics and Finance - Faculty of Banking

Phuong-Linh Vu

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Abstract

Using a large sample of 11,535 firms across 69 countries, this study finds that reputational risk induced by adverse ESG exposure through media channels is associated with greater corporate dividend payout ratios. This result is robust against endogeneity concerns and alternative measures of key variables. The results of our channel analysis suggest that a higher level of free cash flow problems, greater agency costs, and greater CSR performance play a significant role in the association between reputational risk and dividend policies. We also find a stronger positive relationship between reputational risk and dividend payout ratios in countries with weak rule of law, weak shareholder/creditor protections, and weak public enforcement. Overall, in a global context, our analysis highlights the significant reputational impact of media coverage of instances of corporate social irresponsibility on dividend policy.

Keywords: Reputational risk, ESG incidents, Media, Dividend payout

Suggested Citation:

Le, Anh-Tuan and Tran, Thao and Vu, Phuong-Linh, ESG Reputational Exposure and Corporate Dividend Policy: International Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4927692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
F Allen , R Michaely
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Dividends and economic policy uncertainty: International evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
K.-H Bae , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Board Reforms and Dividend Policy: International Evidence
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 1296 - 1320 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
696
RANK
461,853
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies