Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Board Reform and Accounting Conservatism

56 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2024

Chenghao Huang

Nanchang University

Yang Liu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accountancy

Siyang Tian

University of Sussex

Yujie Zhu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accounting

Abstract

We investigate the impact of board governance on accounting conservatism through the staggered implementation of board reforms in 41 economies. Our results reveal a significant increase in accounting conservatism in countries with reforms involving board independence and audit committee and auditor independence. In contrast to a comply-or-explain approach, a rule-based approach with less uncertainty regarding firm compliance promotes accounting conservatism. Additional analyses indicate that the effects of the reform on accounting conservatism are more evident in: (1) firms with more severe agency problems; (2) countries with weak investor protection; and (3) countries with less sophisticated financial and accounting systems. A subsequent investigation confirms that improved board oversight could be the mechanism behind the reform’s effect. Overall, our findings suggest that accounting conservatism serves as a preferred monitoring mechanism for firms that enhance corporate governance following the board reform.

Keywords: Board reforms, Accounting conservatism, Corporate governance, Institutional envi- ronment, Cross-country study

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Chenghao and Liu, Yang and Tian, Siyang and Zhu, Yujie, Global Board Reform and Accounting Conservatism. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4928783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: Evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
C Andres , E Theissen
Setting a fox to keep the geese-does the comply-or-explain principle work?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 301 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
343
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies