Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Shareholder Dissenting Votes Reported Under the Sec's Accelerated Disclosure Rules When Management is Entrenched

50 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2024

Xiaoyan Cheng

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

David B. Smith

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Paul Tanyi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We investigate the valuation implications of shareholder dissenting votes as a disciplining mechanism in the context of management entrenchment. The controversy surrounding shareholder voting, which prompted the 2010 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) rules resulting in the acceleration and more prominent disclosure of dissenting votes, motivates our study. We observe significantly negative and economically meaningful market reactions to initial disclosure of greater shareholder dissenting votes when management is more entrenched. However, we find subsequent significantly positive market reactions to the announcement of CEO dismissal when shareholder dissenting votes were greater and management is more entrenched. An array of supplementary and robustness analyses supports our evidence. Collectively, our findings suggest that investors initially form low expectations of board effectiveness when shareholder dissenting votes are greater and management is more entrenched, but the unexpected dismissal of entrenched CEOs represents a surprise that is welcomed by the market. Overall, our evidence helps clarify the controversy in the literature about the value of shareholder voting by documenting that management entrenchment is a channel for explaining the disciplining role of shareholder voting. Our evidence supports the SEC’s contention that more timely and prominent disclosure of shareholders’ votes benefits capital market participants.

Keywords: Value relevance, Management entrenchment, Director election, CEO dismissal, Governance.

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Xiaoyan and Sharma, Divesh Shankar and Smith, David B. and Tanyi, Paul, Valuation of Shareholder Dissenting Votes Reported Under the Sec's Accelerated Disclosure Rules When Management is Entrenched. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4928786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms manage stock-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
R Anderson , M C Bustamante , S Guibaud , M Zervos
Agency, firm growth, and managerial turnover
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 419 - 464 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies