Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Affecting Cost of Mutual Fund Investments: An Emerging Market Perspective

38 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2024

Munawar Sayyad

ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education

Kaushik Bhattacharjee

Indian Institute of Foreign Trade

Durga Prasad Samantaray

King Saud University - College of Business Administration

Abstract

AbstractUtilizing a large and partially hand-collected dataset of Indian open-ended mutual funds during 2016-2022, we examine how the variables representing different aspects of corporate governance, i.e., Board Size, Board Independence, Asset Management Company (AMC) Ownership Structure, Compensation as well as Tenure of, Independent Directors, and Gender Diversity are related with the Cost of Investments as well as Efficiency of the Board-as proxied by Total Expense Ratio (TER).  On average, smaller boards with higher percentages of independent directors are associated with lower TER of the schemes; a female independent director is associated with helping lower the TER. So far, the ownership structure is concerned; funds of bank-sponsored and private (Indian and foreign) AMCs are associated with lower TER. These results are consistent with theoretical and empirical findings in the literature, especially for firms with high degrees of information asymmetry. Using panel data regression methodology and after taking care of possible endogeneity, we find our results robust under different methodologies like Tobit and Quantile Regression.

Keywords: Total Expense Ratio, Board size, Independent Directors, Ownership Structure, Female Director, Tobit, Quantile Regression, Asset Management Company (AMC), Cost of Investment, Indian Mutual Fund Industry

Suggested Citation:

Sayyad, Munawar and Bhattacharjee, Kaushik and Samantaray, Durga Prasad, Corporate Governance Affecting Cost of Mutual Fund Investments: An Emerging Market Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4928448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4928448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J C Adams , S A Mansi , T Nishikawa
Are mutual fund fees excessive
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 8 , p. 2245 - 2259 Posted: 2012
J C Adams , T Nishikawa , R P Rao
Mutual fund performance, management teams, and boards
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 92 , p. 358 - 368 Posted: 2018
Qi Chen , Itay Goldstein , Wei Jiang
Directors' ownership in the US mutual fund industry
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 6 , p. 2629 - 2677 Posted: 2008
D Del Guercio , L Y Dann , M M Partch
Governance and boards of directors in closed-end investment companies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 152 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
RANK
906,046
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies