Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Strategic Agency and Institutional Forces on the Timing of Adoption of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting: Evidence from China

64 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024

Wei Zhang

The University of Sydney

Chua Wai Fong

University of Sydney

Chuan Yu

University of Sydney Business School Discipline of Accounting, Governance & Regulation

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to study factors influencing the timing of voluntary adoption of stand-alone corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports in China. China’s socialist market economy differs from Western economies and enables a re-examination of the factors that influence the timing of adoption of an accounting practice. Using a sample of Chinese publicly listed firms from 2010 to 2020, we find firms with superior CSR performance are more likely to adopt stand-alone CSR reports early, strategically informing external stakeholders in a timelier manner. Firms that are state-owned or with strong political connections are also more likely to adopt early, seeking political legitimacy by responding to state pronouncements. Greater equity financing needs across sample firms or debt financing needs of firms in high-risk industries are found to strengthen the positive effect of CSR performance on the timing of adoption. We additionally document the impact of CSR performance on the timing of adoption is moderated by political factors. Our findings indicate that even in a state-centred market economy, the timing of adoption of accounting practices is driven by the strategic actions of firms in competitive markets and is not crowded out by different forms of institutional pressure from state agencies.

Keywords: Adoption timing, corporate social responsibility reporting, Strategic agency, institutional forces, China

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Wei and Wai Fong, Chua and Yu, Chuan, The Impact of Strategic Agency and Institutional Forces on the Timing of Adoption of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The Influence of CEO Power on Compensation Contract Design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
M Abubakar Siddique , M Akhtaruzzaman , A Rashid , H Hammami
Carbon disclosure, carbon performance and financial performance: International evidence
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 75 Posted: 2021
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing, & Accountability , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies