Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accounting Firm Investments in Learning and Development Centers Pay Off?

47 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

James Justin Blann

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: August 16, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether accounting firms' investments in centralized learning and development centers yield discernible benefits. We focus on Deloitte's establishment of Deloitte University (DU) and begin with tests aimed at understanding whether DU's establishment affected Deloitte's human capital. Using LinkedIn data compiled by Revelio Labs, we find evidence suggesting relative increases in recruiting quality and employee retention. Using data from Glassdoor, we observe increases in both employee-assessed professional development opportunities and organizational identification for Deloitte relative to peer firms after DU's establishment. Thus, compared to peer firms, Deloitte appeared to experience improvements in the quality of human capital following the establishment of DU. We then investigate potential audit quality and auditor-client contracting effects of DU. Our analyses suggest relative audit quality improvements for Deloitte after DU's launch. We also find that clients are less likely to switch away from and more likely to switch to Deloitte following the opening of DU. While our focus is on DU, we find similar inferences using Deloitte's DU North (in Canada) and KPMG's Lakehouse as alternative settings. Collectively, our results highlight several significant effects of learning and development centers for accounting firms.

Keywords: human capital investments, accounting human capital, audit markets

JEL Classification: J24, M42, M53

Suggested Citation:

Blann, James and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Moon, James, Do Accounting Firm Investments in Learning and Development Centers Pay Off? (August 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M A Abernethy , L Jiang , Y F Kuang
Can organizational identification mitigate the CEO horizon problem? Accounting , volume 78 Posted: 2019
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor Supply Drought: The Case of Accountant Talent Shortage and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2024
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The influence of labor market power in the audit profession
The Accounting Review Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
196,969
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies