Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the use of SOC 1 Reports: Insights from CFOs, CAEs, and Audit Committee Members

11 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2024

Abdullah Almoshaigeh

Georgia State University

Lawrence Burke

Elon University

Denise Dickins

East Carolina University

Julia L. Higgs

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: February 06, 2023

Abstract

Business process outsourcing is increasing in volume and variety. Market research firms Technavio and Grandview Research report that in 2017, the global market for business outsourcing was approximately $157 billion, and in 2022 it was approximately $262 billion (10.5 percent compounded annual growth rate); and the largest components of US business process outsourcing are customer service (including call centers), finance and accounting, human resources, and procurement and supply chain.

While outsourcing can help companies better allocate scarce resources, focus on core competencies, and save costs, outsourcing can also complicate the financial reporting process. US public companies (issuers) that outsource processes material to the financial statements are required to obtain assurance that their service organizations’ internal controls applicable to outsourced processes are operating effectively (SEC 17 CFR §228.308). Further, to manage the risk of misstatements, even companies not required to report on internal controls should at least understand their service organizations’ financial reporting controls over the processes they outsource. Assurance about service organizations’ financial reporting controls is commonly obtained by reviewing a copy of the service organization’s System and Organization Controls (SOC) 1 attestation report (us.aicpa.org)

Because the production and use of SOC 1 reports is private information, little is known about how they are used and relied upon by companies to reduce the financial reporting risks associated with outsourcing. To learn more, we collected data from issuers’ chief financial officers (CFOs), chief audit executives (CAEs), and audit committee members (ACMs). The insights gained from the survey’s results can help accounting managers and auditors better understand how SOC 1 reports can help reduce the financial reporting-related, third-party vendor risks associated with outsourcing business processes.

Ethics Approval

IRB approved and written consent was used.

Suggested Citation:

Almoshaigeh, Abdullah and Burke, Lawrence and Dickins, Denise and Higgs, Julia L., Improving the use of SOC 1 Reports: Insights from CFOs, CAEs, and Audit Committee Members (February 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4930219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies