Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Buy-Side Analysts in Earnings Conference Calls Manipulate Stock Prices?

Journal of Corporate Finance, December 2024, Vol. 89

58 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2024 Last revised: 5 Jan 2025

Gang Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

M.H. Franco Wong

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Danlei Bonnie Yu

Soochow University

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Date Written: August 20, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the generalizability of widely perceived notions that buy-side analysts try to influence or manipulate a firm's stock price by praising or criticizing management during a public earnings conference call. Despite two institutional factors that make it difficult to detect empirically, we find some evidence of stock influence behavior by using a combination of data on conference call transcripts and trading by the institutions that employ the buy-side analysts. However, we also find evidence consistent with the null hypothesis that buy-side analysts are acquiring information rather than manipulating the stock price. Subsample analyses suggest that stock influence is more detectable among hedge funds, while information acquisition is the norm among traditional buy-and-hold institutions. The evidence we provide on each behavior should be of interest to firm managers who host conference calls, market participants who use conference calls to collect company information, as well as regulators who monitor for possible market manipulation.

Keywords: Buy-Side Analysts, Conference Calls, Stock Prices, Stock Returns, Manipulation

JEL Classification: G14, G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Gang and Jung, Michael J. and Wong, M.H. Franco and Yu, Danlei Bonnie and Zhang, Frank, Do Buy-Side Analysts in Earnings Conference Calls Manipulate Stock Prices? (August 20, 2024). Journal of Corporate Finance, December 2024, Vol. 89, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4931582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4931582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
P Abramowitz
The Best of the Buy Side. Institutional Investor , volume 40 , p. 42 - 52 Posted: 2006
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
R M Bowen , A K Davis , D A Matsumoto
Do Conference Calls Affect Analysts' Forecasts?
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 316 Posted: 2002
Z Bozanic , J Chen , M J Jung
Analyst Contrarianism. Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , p. 61 - 88 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
307,529
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies