Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind the Corporate Veil: How Business Groups Arbitrage ESG Disclosure Mandates

98 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2024 Last revised: 24 Apr 2025

Stefano Cascino

London School of Economics

Maria M. Correia

London School of Economics and Political Science

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

We examine how ESG disclosure mandates introduced in the headquarters countries of business groups affect the ESG performance of both parent companies and their subsidiaries. Leveraging the staggered introduction of these mandates across numerous countries worldwide, we find that, following mandate adoption, parent companies improve their own ESG performance—but do so, in part, by shifting irresponsible ESG activities to their subsidiaries. Subsidiaries of parents subject to disclosure mandates experience a significant increase in the occurrence and frequency of ESG incidents, particularly in countries where weaker institutions and social norms make stakeholder monitoring more challenging and where parent companies are less likely to be liable for subsidiary torts. We further show that business groups respond to ESG disclosure mandates along both the intensive margin—via increased asset and employee utilization in subsidiaries—and the extensive margin, through divestitures of non-synergistic subsidiaries that pose excessive ESG risks. Collectively, our findings highlight the consequences of uneven ESG disclosure regulation and underscore the need for cross-country coordination in regulatory design.

Keywords: CSR, ESG, Business groups, Multinational corporations, Disclosure regulation, Sustainability reporting, Regulatory arbitrage

JEL Classification: G18, G38, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cascino, Stefano and Correia, Maria M., Behind the Corporate Veil: How Business Groups Arbitrage ESG Disclosure Mandates (April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4931464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4931464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
141 References
J K Abraham , M Olbert , F P Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry Posted: 2024
S Agarwal , Q Gu , J He , Qi Zhang
Corporate ESG profiles and consumption Posted: 2023
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
R Albuquerque , L Brandão-Marques , M A Ferreira , P Matos
International corporate governance spillovers: Evidence from cross-border mergers and acquisitions
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 738 - 770
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
635
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,084
RANK
95,933
141 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies