Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Earnings of Private and Public Firms and the Macroeconomic Effects of Capital Market Pressures on Investments

56 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2024 Last revised: 25 Apr 2025

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: December 10, 2024

Abstract

This paper compares the macro-content of aggregate earnings, defined as the relationship between aggregate earnings and year-ahead macroeconomic growth, across private and public firms. Aggregate earnings of private firms, but not public firms, are significantly related to the year-ahead GDP growth. This finding is robust to various controls, including methodological choices and alternative regression specifications. An intra-year analysis reveals that the differences in the macro-content of private and public firms’ aggregate earnings are discernable in analyses of GDP growth over the subsequent three or four quarters. Evaluating alternative explanations, we find that the lesser macro-content of listed firms is primarily attributable to their listing choice, cash flow component of earnings, and investment decisions. We conclude that capital market pressure on investments is a dominant reason why public firms' aggregate earnings have a weaker relationship with future GDP growth.

Keywords: Accounting earnings, Macroeconomic growth, Gross Domestic Product

JEL Classification: E00, M41

Suggested Citation:

Shivakumar, Lakshmanan and Urcan, Oktay, Aggregate Earnings of Private and Public Firms and the Macroeconomic Effects of Capital Market Pressures on Investments (December 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4932669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4932669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
H Almeida , N Ersahin , V Fos , R M Irani , M Kronlund
How do short-term incentives affect long-term productivity
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2024
I Agarwal , M Baron
Inflation and disintermediation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 160 Posted: 2024
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firm's investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
390,788
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies