Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Audit Committee Attributes in Enhancing Financial Reporting Value Relevance in Saudi Arabia
Heliyon

38 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2024 Publication Status: Preprint

Abdulrahman Alomair

King Faisal University

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines how audit committee characteristics moderate the value relevance of financial statement information for Saudi firms, providing evidence on whether audit committee governance complements accounting amounts for equity valuation.

Design/methodology/approach: Using data from 125 Saudi listed non-financial firms from 2018-2022, the study employs balanced panel regression analysis to assess interactions between earnings, book values, and audit committee independence, size, meetings, and expertise in explaining stock prices.

Findings:  Audit committee independence and expertise improve the value relevance of earnings but not book value, while size and meetings enhance the relevance of both earnings and book value.Research limitations: The sample is limited to Saudi listed firms. Findings may not generalize to other contexts. However, an in-depth single country study provides targeted insights into the Saudi governance environment needed to inform regulators and firms on optimizing practices specifically within this evolving context.

Practical implications : Firms should leverage audit committee governance mechanisms of independence, expertise, size, and frequent meetings to complement financial reporting in enhancing credibility and valuation usefulness.

Originality/value: This study provides novel evidence that audit committee monitoring and financial reporting quality jointly strengthen value relevance in Saudi Arabia's concentrated ownership context.

Keywords: Audit committee characteristics, Value Relevance, Financial reporting quality, corporate governance, Saudi Arabia, Saudi Vision 2030

Suggested Citation:

Alomair, Abdulrahman, The Role of Audit Committee Attributes in Enhancing Financial Reporting Value Relevance in Saudi Arabia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4932822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4932822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
S S Abbadi , Q F Hijazi , A S Al-Rahahleh
Corporate governance quality and earnings management: Evidence from Jordan. Australasian Accounting , volume 10 , p. 54 - 75 Posted: 2016
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A journal of practice & theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
M Al-Abbas
Corporate governance and earnings management: An empirical study of the Saudi market
Journal of American Academy of Business , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 310 Posted: 2009
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud and corporate executives: Agency, stewardship and broken trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies