Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Litigation Risk and Capital Structure Dynamics

Forthcoming in the International Journal of Accounting

47 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2024

Kwabena Boasiako

Manchester Metropolitan University

Sylvester Adasi Manu

Neoma Business School

Anthony Kyiu

Durham University

Bernard Tawiah

Southern Utah University - School of Business

Date Written: August 23, 2024

Abstract

We use staggered state-level shocks to third-party auditor legal liability in the US to investigate the impact of auditor litigation risk on firm capital structure dynamics. Firms that are based in states with increased auditor litigation risk have higher leverage ratios, lower cost of debt, use debt of longer-term maturity, and are less likely to be underleveraged. The effect is also more pronounced for financially constrained firms and those that depend heavily on external financing. Overall, our findings, which withstand a variety of robustness tests, highlight the important role of liability against auditor negligence in corporate financing decisions.

Suggested Citation:

Boasiako, Kwabena and Adasi Manu, Sylvester and Kyiu, Anthony and Tawiah, Bernard, Auditor Litigation Risk and Capital Structure Dynamics (August 23, 2024). Forthcoming in the International Journal of Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4934968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4934968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
RANK
658,366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies