Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Value-Added Tax Refund Policy Alleviate Corporate Financial Distress? Evidence from China

86 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2024

WEI YU

Ningbo University

Keying Zhu

University of Nottingham, Ningbo - University of Nottingham Ningbo China

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of the implementation of value-added tax refund policies (VATRP) on corporate financial distress by analyzing a range of Chinese listed firms from 2015 to 2021. Using the 2018 VATRP in China as a quasi-natural experiment, we conduct Difference-in-Differences (DID) estimate and find that VATRP significantly alleviates corporate financial distress by relaxing financial constraints and improving corporate governance quality. The effectiveness of the policy is further highlighted in a cross-sectional analysis, demonstrating that the positive impacts of VATRP on financial distress are more pronounced in firms located in areas with mature digital inclusive finance, firms with robust financing abilities within their supply chains or subject to less tax restrictions, and industries characterized by lower competition levels. These insights are crucial for comprehending how VATRP affects corporate financial distress and provide valuable insights for policymakers to bolster VAT reform initiatives.

Keywords: VAT Refund Policy, Financial Distress, Financial Constraints, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

YU, WEI and Zhu, Keying, Can Value-Added Tax Refund Policy Alleviate Corporate Financial Distress? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4934317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4934317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
E I Altman
IWANICZarios, suggests the need for a comprehensive approach to business development. This implies improving digital inclusive finance mechanisms and promoting robust supply chJournal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 28 , p. 131 - 171
D Andriosopoulos , A De Cesari , K Stathopoulos
Excess corporate payouts and financial distress risk
European financial management : the journal of the European Financial Management Association , volume 27 , p. 865 - 898 Posted: 2021
N Baklouti , F Gautier , H Affes
Corporate governance and financial distress of European commercial banks
Journal of Business Studies Quarterly , volume 7 Posted: 2016
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , S Yonker
Board diversity, firm risk, and corporate policies
Journal of financial economics , volume 127 , p. 588 - 612 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
500
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies