Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Downsides of Democracy? The Case of Tax Complexity 

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 153

45 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2024 Last revised: 17 Apr 2025

Henning Giese

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Adrian Schipp

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 23, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the association between the political characteristics of countries and the complexity of the legal system. Using country-level data on tax complexity, democracy indicators, and election results, we find that greater democratic governance is associated with increased overall complexity of tax systems. This association is primarily driven by the complexity of tax regulations, whereas tax procedures—such as filings and audits—tend to be less complex in more democratic countries. Further analyses reveal that anti-tax avoidance regulations are more intricate as democracy levels rise, high-lighting complexity as an unintended consequence of economic prosperity. Additionally, we identify electoral pluralism and civil liberties as key factors driving this association. Finally, we find that left-leaning governments experience a greater increase in tax complexity through democracy than their right-leaning counterparts. 

Keywords: tax complexity, legislation process, political orientation, democracy and governance, political economy of taxation

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H11, D72

Suggested Citation:

Giese, Henning and Schipp, Adrian, The Downsides of Democracy? The Case of Tax Complexity  (August 23, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 153, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4934571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4934571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Economic origins of dictatorship and democracy Posted: 2006
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Persistence of power, elites, and institutions
American Economic Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 267 - 293 Posted: 2008
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
The rise and decline of general laws of capitalism
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
315,603
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies