Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Institutional Ownership in Corporate ESG Performance

31 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2024

zongze Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zhengyuan Liu

Nanjing University

Yuetang Wang

Henan University

Abstract

This paper examines the role of institutional ownership in corporate ESG performance. Using a dataset of China listed companies from 2012 to 2021, we show that institutional ownership promoted corporate ESG performance. Institutional investors function as information intermediaries and supervisors of corporate governance in promoting corporate ESG performance. The results hold after various robustness checks.  We also find that institutional investor heterogeneity and corporate characteristics affect such relationship. Stable and pressure resistant investors are the main contributors to corporate ESG improvement. Mature and decline firms’ ESG performance is not affected by institutional ownerships. Business environment positively moderate the ESG promotion effect of institutional ownership.

Keywords: ESG, institutional ownership, corporate governance, China

Suggested Citation:

Li, zongze and Liu, Zhengyuan and Wang, Yuetang, The Role of Institutional Ownership in Corporate ESG Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4935696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4935696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R Aggarwal , P A Saffi , J Sturgess
The role of institutional investors in voting: Evidence from the securities lending market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 2309 - 2346 Posted: 2015
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
RANK
388,737
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies