Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Evaluations of Corporate Externalities

55 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024 Last revised: 10 Mar 2025

Darren Bernard

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Elsa Maria Juliani

INSEAD

Alastair Lawrence

London Business School

Date Written: March 09, 2025

Abstract

We conduct an international field study in which C-suite executives identify corporate peers that externalize large or small proportions of their costs. Using these evaluations, we construct a novel measure of corporate externalities based on executives’ perceptions. We first validate the measure, showing agreement among independent respondents, modest correlations with measures of specific environmental and social externalities, and predictive power for out-of-sample regulatory penalties. We then use the measure to speak to three open questions. First, we show that private companies score well, contrary to concerns that externalities are pushed out of public markets. Second, companies that score poorly have higher trailing and forward returns than companies that score well, even incremental to the carbon premium. Third, firms disproportionately include peers that score poorly in their compensation peer groups, suggesting some consideration of externalities in peer group selection. Overall, our study contributes initial evidence on a complementary approach for measuring and attributing corporate externalities.

Keywords: externalities, peer evaluation, carbon premium, compensation peer groups

JEL Classification: D62, G12, G30, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Darren and Juliani, Elsa Maria and Lawrence, Alastair, Peer Evaluations of Corporate Externalities (March 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4935123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4935123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S Rajgopal
Are carbon emissions associated with stock returns?
Review of Finance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 106 Posted: 2024
I Ben-David , J R Graham , C R Harvey
Managerial miscalibration
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 128 , p. 1547 - 1584 Posted: 2013
F Berg , J F Kölbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
469,965
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies