Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of the Certified Public Accountant Licensure Examination on Accounting Students' Attitudes

14 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Kristian Cesar Ollier

Aldersgate College

Cherry Rose Palicdon

Aldersgate College

Kristine Joy Gamozo

Aldersgate College

Maybel Joy Aniceto

Aldersgate College

Date Written: August 16, 2023

Abstract

This research explores the influence of the Certified Public Accountant Licensure Examination (CPALE) on the attitudes and readiness of accountancy students, aiming to improve program outcomes and board examination results. The study surveyed predominantly female respondents aged 19-29, with a monthly family income below 9,520 and a general weighted average ranging from 2.34 to 1.66. Key findings indicate that CPALE significantly affects students' interest and commitment to the program, particularly in enhancing time management skills and study dedication. While demographic factors such as age, gender, family income, and academic performance showed minor program perceptions and preparedness variations, no statistically significant impact was observed. Moreover, a positive correlation was identified between program choice, preparation, and academic practices like group study and practice testing. These findings will help to develop evidence-based techniques and interventions to help students prepare for CPALE, improve their study habits, and increase their overall success rates. Recommendations include involving first and second-year students in future studies, organizing initiatives to boost male enrollment, and promoting comprehensive training and mock exams. Workshops focusing on study habits, time management, and personality development are proposed to enhance student readiness. These findings emphasize the importance of inclusive educational strategies to support all students, regardless of socioeconomic background, and suggest a need for tailored approaches in program design to optimize student preparation and success in the accountancy field.

Keywords: Accountancy program, Established practices, Program choice, Preparation

Suggested Citation:

Ollier, Kristian Cesar and Palicdon, Cherry Rose and Gamozo, Kristine Joy and Aniceto, Maybel Joy, Influence of the Certified Public Accountant Licensure Examination on Accounting Students' Attitudes (August 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4936336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Chastine Eiram Gallardo , Marifel Sison
Attitude, Preparedness, and Challenges of the Radiologic Technology Graduates towards the Licensure Examination
Psychology and Education: A Multidisciplinary Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 288 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Motivation for Continuing Professional Development Compliance among Certified Public Accountants and Its Implications for Professional Practice and Career Development
International Journal of Management and Accounting , p. 150 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,427
RANK
100,167
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies