Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerialization and Professionalization in Family Businesses: Determinants and Linkages

41 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2024

Chiara Morelli

Università del Piemonte Orientale Dipartimento di Studi per l'Economia e l'Impresa

Luca Gnan

Bocconi University; University of Rome Tor Vergata - Tor Vergata Economics University Foundation

Giorgio Cantino

University of Piemonte Orientale

Lucrezia Songini

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study aims to understand the factors that influence the adoption of managerial control and human resource management systems in family firms, and the relationship with professionalisation. Using a sample of 427 family SMEs, we found that the adoption of MCSs and HRMSs in small and medium-sized family firms is influenced by firm variables, precisely size, and strategic complexity. In addition, the role of size and strategic complexity is not limited to the adoption of MCSs and HRMSs, but also affects the professionalization of family SMEs, that is the involvement of professional managers. At the same time, professionalisation positively impacts the adoption of MCSs, also acting as a mediator of size and strategic complexity in adopting these formal systems in family SMEs. Finally, a further variable that we have found to positively influence the adoption of MCSs and HRMSs is that of family governance bodies, thus cementing the critical role of the family in the adoption of formal managerial systems.

Keywords: Family SMEs, Managerial Control Systems, Human Resource Management Systems, Professionalization

Suggested Citation:

Morelli, Chiara and Gnan, Luca and Cantino, Giorgio and Songini, Lucrezia, Managerialization and Professionalization in Family Businesses: Determinants and Linkages. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4936049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Leadership and control system design
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 16 Posted: 2010
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study of control system "redesign": the impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
M Acquaah
Management control systems, business strategy and performance: A comparative analysis of family and non-family business in a transition economy in sub-Saharian Africa
Journal of Family Business Strategy , volume 4 , p. 131 - 146 Posted: 2013
C Akroyd , R Kober
Imprinting founders' blueprints on management control systems
Management Accounting Research , volume 46 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
RANK
906,046
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies