Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ripple Effect: How Subsidies Transform Firm Behavior

55 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2024

José Antonio Pérez Amuedo

Marquette University - Department of Finance

M. Kabir Hassan

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Reza Houston

Ball State University - Miller College of Business; George Mason University Center for Government Contracting

Abstract

This study examines the influence of various subsidies on firm behavior, focusing on profitability, investment, and employment. Using a comprehensive database of local, state, and federal subsidies matched with firm-specific financial data, we explore how different types of subsidies affect firm decisions within a resource-based framework. Our findings indicate that subsidies generally enhance firm profitability and strategic investments. Cost-reducing subsidies are better for increasing employment and R&D investment than revenue-increasing subsidies. State subsidies are also more lucrative than federal subsidies. The results highlight the value of tailoring subsidy policies to firm-specific needs and broader economic objectives.

Keywords: Subsidies, resource-based view, loans, Firm Performance

Suggested Citation:

Pérez Amuedo, José Antonio and Hassan, M. Kabir and Houston, Reza, The Ripple Effect: How Subsidies Transform Firm Behavior. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936539 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4936539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Matthias Almus , Dirk Czarnitzki
The effects of public R&D subsidies on firms' innovation activities: the case of Eastern Germany
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 236 Posted: 2003
Aminullah Assagaf , Yusliza Mohd Yusoff , Rohail Hassan
Government subsidy, strategic profitability and its impact on financial performance: Empirical evidence from Indonesia
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 135 - 147 Posted: 2017
Abhijit V Banerjee , Esther Duflo
Do firms want to borrow more? Testing credit constraints using a directed lending program
Review of Economic Studies , volume 81 , issue 2 , p. 572 - 607 Posted: 2014
Dinara Bayazitova , Anil Shivdasani
Assessing TARP
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 377 - 407 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
464,511
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies