Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value of Agricultural Commodities as a Determinant of Net Income of Brazilian Listed Companies (VALOR JUSTO DAS COMMODITIES AGRÍCOLAS COMO DETERMINANTE DO LUCRO LÍQUIDO DAS COMPANHIAS ABERTAS BRASILEIRAS)

Posted: 24 Sep 2024

Abelardo De Melo Gaspar Neto

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS)

Vanessa Noguez Machado

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Maria Ivanice Vendruscolo

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS)

Fernanda Gomes Victor

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande (FURG)

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

English abstract: The present study aimed to verify how the volatility of the annual results of Brazilian public companies is influenced by the fluctuation in the price of agricultural commodities. The sample consists of 26 publicly-held companies with shares traded on Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão [B]³ that had a balance in the Biological Assets account, both in the short and long terms. The data, analyzed over nine years (2010 to 2018), were grouped into categories and treated statistically, using panel data with a stacked time series. The price of some commodities - such as cotton, pork, poultry and wheat - have an influence on the volatility of the companies' annual results, so that their volatility is shown to be significantly linked to a more accurate assessment of the company's value. Thus, the study contributes to the signaling of the prices of agricultural commodities to the market and their influence on the volatility of profits, in order to optimize the decision-making of investors and managers, avoiding losses and assisting in the development of quantitative strategies for the profitability of their active.


Portuguese abstract: RESUMO O presente estudo teve por objetivo analisar como a volatilidade dos resultados anuais das companhias abertas brasileiras é influenciada pela oscilação do preço das commodities agrícolas. A amostra é composta por 26 companhias abertas com ações negociadas na Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão [B]³ que apresentavam saldo na conta de Ativos Biológicos, tanto no curto quanto no longo prazos. Os dados, analisados ao longo de nove anos (2010 a 2018), foram agrupados em categorias e tratados estatisticamente, por meio de dados em painel com série temporal empilhada. O preço de algumas commodities-como algodão, suínos, aves e trigo-apresentam influência sobre a volatilidade dos resultados anuais.

Keywords: Commodities., Lucro Líquido., Ativo biológico., Valor justo., Lucro por Ação.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

De Melo Gaspar Neto, Abelardo and Machado, Vanessa Noguez and Vendruscolo, Maria Ivanice and Victor, Fernanda Gomes, Fair Value of Agricultural Commodities as a Determinant of Net Income of Brazilian Listed Companies (VALOR JUSTO DAS COMMODITIES AGRÍCOLAS COMO DETERMINANTE DO LUCRO LÍQUIDO DAS COMPANHIAS ABERTAS BRASILEIRAS) (June 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936038
 Not Available for Download
49 References
M C Almeida
Curso de Contabilidade intermediária em IFRS e CPC Posted: 2014
J M Argilés , J García-Blandón , T Monllau
Fair value versus historic cost valuation for biological assets: implications for the quality of financial information
Espai de Recerca en Economia. Recuperado de , volume 215 Posted: 2009
J M Argilés , J García-Blandón , T Monllau
Fair value versus historical cost-based valuation for biological assets: predictability of financial information
Revista de Contabilidad , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 113 Posted: 2011
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards [IFRS]: pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies