Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How does Audit Quality Affect Firm Innovation? Evidence from China

53 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2024

Charles Hsu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Chaopeng Wu

Xiamen University - School of Management

Zehao Yan

Nanchang University - School of Economics and Management

Ruichao Zhu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST); Neoma Business School

Date Written: August 29, 2024

Abstract

Existing research based on the US setting suggests that high-quality audits impede firm innovation by inducing managerial myopia that leads managers to sacrifice innovative activities. We extend this literature by examining the impact of audit quality on firm innovation in a major emerging market, China. Given the weak institutional environments in China, we posit that increases in audit quality enhance firm innovation by facilitating firms’ external financing abilities and promoting managers’ innovation efforts. Consistent with our predictions, we find that increased audit quality due to “switching” to BigN auditors after auditor mergers significantly improves firms’ innovation quantity and quality. We further find that increases in audit quality impact firm innovation by increasing external financing and motivating both internal and external investment in innovation. Overall, our results indicate that audit quality has a positive governance effect on firms’ real decisions in a major economy with weak legal environments.

Keywords: audit quality, firm innovation, audit firm mergers, institutional environments, investments

Funder Statement

Charles Hsu acknowledges financial support from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Business School. Chaopeng Wu acknowledges the financial support from the National Social Science Foundation of China (grant number: 22ZDA047).

JEL Classification: G34, M42, O31

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Charles and Wu, Chaopeng and Yan, Zehao and Zhu, Ruichao, How does Audit Quality Affect Firm Innovation? Evidence from China (August 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 12 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , & L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
304,916
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies