Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does National Governance Affect Corporate Governance and Firm Performance Nexus? A Comparative Study of Selected SSA Countries
Heliyon

24 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2024 Publication Status: Preprint

Isaac Luke Agonbire Atugeba

Accra Institute of Technology

Emmanuel Acquah-Sam

Wisconsin International University College

Abstract

This study comparatively investigates the relationship between corporate governance and firm performance in selected Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries, as well as the moderating role of country-level governance. The study employs panel regression analysis on a sample of 309 listed firms across five SSA countries—Botswana, Ghana, South Africa, Kenya, and Nigeria—over the period 2016–2022. The results show that firms operating in better-governed countries (Botswana, Ghana, and South Africa) exhibit a positive and significant effect of board independence on firm value, whereas firms in weak-governed nations (Kenya and Nigeria) display a negative relationship between board independence and firm value. In better-governed countries, the findings suggest a nuanced, context-dependent relationship between national governance quality and corporate governance-firm performance linkages. Moreover, in weak-governed nations, the findings suggest that country governance strengthens the positive effects of board size, board diversity, audit quality, related third-party transaction disclosure, and stakeholder engagement on firm performance. These findings imply that policymakers and regulators in emerging economies like those in the study sample should prioritize improving country governance frameworks.

Keywords: corporate governance, firm performance, national governance, Stakeholder engagement, Sub-saharan Africa

Suggested Citation:

Atugeba, Isaac Luke Agonbire and Acquah-Sam, Emmanuel, Does National Governance Affect Corporate Governance and Firm Performance Nexus? A Comparative Study of Selected SSA Countries. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Abor , C K D Adjasi
Corporate Governance and the Small and Medium Enterprises Sector: Theory and Implications , volume 7 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 2007
J Acheampong , P Baidoo , C O Somuah
The influence of values, beliefs, and norms on succession planning and organizational culture: An investigation of their role in longterm success and survival
Archives of the Social Sciences: A Journal of Collaborative Memory , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 77 Posted: 2023
G Adegbite
Corporate governance developments in Ghana: The past, the present, and the future
Public and Municipal Finance , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 38 - 49 Posted: 2012
E Adegbite , C Nakajima
International corporate governance and capital market performance: The effects of firms' levels of national corporate governance disclosure
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 607 - 623 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
350
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies