Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Mandatory Submission of Master File and Local File (BEPS Action 13) Deter Profit Shifting? The Experience of a Developing Economy

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-07

49 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Agus Hidayat

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 26, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of mandatory transfer pricing documentation of BEPS Action 13, namely the Master File and Local File (MFLF), as anti-profit shifting measures on profit-shifting behavior. The evidence from administrative tax return data from the Indonesian Tax Authority shows that firms obligated to submit the MFLF have lower taxable income than firms that do not submit these documents. The impact of MFLF submission on firms required to submit indicates that firms continue profit-shifting behavior. We provide evidence of the profit-shifting channels used, predominately intra-group transactions, such as trading of goods, interest payments, and services remuneration via related-party transactions. The results suggest valuable insights into profit-shifting behavior within emerging countries that seem not to be hampered by private (non-public) disclosure rules, offering important information for accounting researchers and tax authorities and adds to the discussion regarding private vs public tax disclosure rules.

Keywords: Master file and local file, profit shifting, private vs public disclosure

JEL Classification: G18, H26

Suggested Citation:

Hidayat, Agus and Petutschnig, Matthias, Do Mandatory Submission of Master File and Local File (BEPS Action 13) Deter Profit Shifting? The Experience of a Developing Economy (August 26, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
T Buettner , M Overesch , U Schreiber , G Wamser
The impact of thincapitalization rules on the capital structure of multinational firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , issue 11-12 , p. 930 - 938 Posted: 2012
S Bustos , D Pomeranz , J C Suárez Serrato , J Vila-Belda , G Zucman
The Race between Tax Enforcement and Tax Planning: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Chile
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2023
K A Clausing
Tax-motivated transfer pricing and US intrafirm trade prices
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9-10 , p. 15 - 19 Posted: 2003
B A D Cristea , D X Nguyen
Transfer Pricing by Multinational Firms : New Evidence from Foreign Firm Ownerships
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 170 - 202 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
432,018
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies