Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Office Segmentation and Tax Avoidance in a Developing Economy

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-06

49 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Agus Hidayat

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 26, 2024

Abstract

Using administrative Indonesian income tax return data from 2012-2019, I examine whether the segmentation of tax offices into Large Taxpayer Offices (LTOs) and Medium Taxpayer Offices (MTOs) correlates with the tax avoidance practices of firms registered within those respective tax offices. The study reveals that firms and comparable firms registered with LTOs, exhibit more substantial permanent book-tax differences compared to those with MTOs. This assertion is further supported by robustness checks employing the discretionary permanent difference (DTAX) and GAAP ETR. These empirical observations underscore the persistent potential for tax avoidance among firms despite significant tax contributions and stricter supervision by tax authorities. This potential for avoidance aligns with the political power theory, suggesting that larger firms may leverage their influence to engage in more aggressive tax planning strategies. The implications of these findings shed light on the dynamics of tax avoidance concerning tax regimes and firm size within the context of heightened regulatory enforcement in emerging economies, offering valuable insights for both accounting researchers and tax authorities.

Keywords: tax administration, tax office segmentation, tax enforcement, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G18, H26

Suggested Citation:

Hidayat, Agus, Tax Office Segmentation and Tax Avoidance in a Developing Economy (August 26, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the radar: The effects of monitoring firms on tax compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
B A Badertscher , J D Phillips , M Pincus , S O Rego
Earnings management strategies and the trade-off between tax benefits and detection risk: To conform or not to conform?
Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2009
K Baer , O P Benon , R Toro , J
Improving Large Taxpayers' Compliance: A Review of Country Experience
Occasional Paper Posted: 2002
C M Basri , M Felix , R Hanna , B A Olken
Tax Administration Vs. Tax Rates: Evidence From Corporate Taxation in Indonesia. Nber Working Paper Series Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
429,664
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies