Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voting With Their Feet: Employee Responses to ESG News

40 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Ming Leung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chuchu Liang

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: August 26, 2024

Abstract

We study whether and how employees 'vote with their feet' in response to their employer's environmental, social, and governance (ESG) news. Using monthly data, we find that ESG news sentiment is negatively associated with future employee turnover, indicating employees' desire to work for socially responsible employers. This association is greater when the ESG news is more salient, among female employees, and when pro-social preferences are more likely to be normative. Moreover, we find that employees react to both HR-related ESG news (i.e., news primarily concerning employees) and non-HR ESG news (i.e., news primarily concerning stakeholders outside the firm). Further cross-sectional tests show that employees are more responsive to ESG news when neighboring firms have more job postings or during the period without restructuring costs, consistent with voluntary turnover driving the main results. Overall, our evidence consistently shows that employees care about their employer's ESG profile.

Keywords: ESG, Employee turnover, News sentiment

Suggested Citation:

Leung, Ming and Liang, Chuchu and Lourie, Ben and Zhu, Chenqi, Voting With Their Feet: Employee Responses to ESG News (August 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
H S Albinger , S J Freeman
Corporate social performance and attractiveness as an employer to different job seeking populations
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 28 , p. 243 - 253 Posted: 2000
I Appel , J Farre-Mensa , E Simintzi
Patent trolls and startup employment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 3 , p. 708 - 725 Posted: 2019
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2022
K Balakrishnan , R Copat , D De La Parra , K Ramesh
Racial diversity exposure and firm responses following the murder of George Floyd
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 737 - 804 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
266,546
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies