Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability and Common Owners

47 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Maimuna Akter

Gonzaga University

Justin Chircop

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Monika Tarsalewska

University of Exeter Business School

Abstract

We examine the relationship between accounting comparability and common ownership. On the one hand, accounting comparability reduces information asymmetry between firms and investors by reducing information acquisition and processing costs. Conversely, accounting comparability reduces the private benefits, which sophisticated investors such as common owners can extract from the firm. Using a sample of U.S. firms for 1999-2021, we find that accounting comparability is positively related to common ownership. This relation is driven by a reduction in information asymmetry as captured by the bid-ask spread; it is stronger when competition is high, and accounting quality is low. Further, we find that non-transient common owners drive the observed relation.

Keywords: accounting comparability, common owners, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Akter, Maimuna and Chircop, Justin and Cumming, Douglas J. and Tarsalewska, Monika, Accounting Comparability and Common Owners. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives
Journal of Political Economy , volume 131 , issue 5 , p. 1294 - 1355 Posted: 2023
J Azar , S Raina , M Schmalz
Ultimate ownership and bank competition
Financial Management , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 227 - 269 Posted: 2022
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Research on the competitive consequences of common ownership: A methodological critique
The Antitrust Bulletin , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 122 Posted: 2021
M Backus , C Conlon , M Sinkinson
Common ownership and competition in the readyto-eat cereal industry Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
718,946
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies