Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preference Dynamics and Risk-Taking Incentives

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting and Economics

82 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Xiao Cen

Mays Business School, Texas A&M University

Nan Li

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Juanting Wang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: August 19, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between executive compensation and the preference dynamics of managers and shareholders. Our analysis centers on the theoretical prediction that changes in firms' asset value can differentially affect the risk-taking preferences of the two groups, potentially influencing the optimal compensation policy. Utilizing local real estate price changes to identify variations in firms' asset value, we find that a decrease in asset value leads to more risk-taking incentives in compensation, and this effect is more pronounced in firms that are more likely to be influenced by the hypothesized mechanisms. In the second empirical setting, we provide corroborating evidence using a natural experiment involving disaster-induced negative shocks to the firm fundamentals. Collectively, our findings suggest that the design of compensation contracts facilitates incentive alignment by incorporating the dynamic preferences of the contracting parties.

Keywords: Risk-Taking, Incentive Alignment, Agency Conflict, Executive Compensation

JEL Classification: G32, G33, G34, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cen, Xiao and Li, Nan and Tang, Chao and Wang, Juanting, Preference Dynamics and Risk-Taking Incentives (August 19, 2024). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Albuquerque , B Bennett , C Custódio , D Cvijanović
CEO compensation and real estate prices: pay for luck or pay for action?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 2401 - 2447 Posted: 2023
J D Anderson , J E Core
Managerial incentives to increase risk provided by debt, stock, and options
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 9 , p. 4408 - 4432 Posted: 2018
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
541,838
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies