Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Tax Audit Effectiveness: The Case of Addis Ababa City Administration Number One Medium Tax Payer Branch Office

18 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2024

Kiflu Chekole Tekle

Central China Normal University

Alemayehu Abera Lemma

Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Getachew Gobena Amassgaha

Ambo University

Date Written: June 29, 2024

Abstract

This research study examines determinants of tax audit effectiveness. The main objective of this study was examine determinants of Tax audit effectiveness in the case of Addis Ababa city administration number one medium tax payer branch office. Data gathering techniques could include questionnaires, document analysis, and direct observation. To provide a thorough insight, the study makes use of both qualitative and quantitative data. The research design was explanatory and the research approach were mixed. Since the population is manageable the researcher applied census method. The study finds that taxpayer awareness, audit quality, and staff expertise play pivotal roles in enhancing tax audit effectiveness. The results underscore the importance of promoting taxpayer education and engagement to foster voluntary compliance and productive interactions between authorities and taxpayers. Additionally, the study highlights the significance of rigorous auditing practices, techniques, and oversight in maximizing the impact of tax enforcement efforts. However, the study also cautions against excessive organizational independence and top management involvement, emphasizing the importance of maintaining a balance for optimal outcomes. Based on these findings, the study recommends enhancing taxpayer awareness, strengthening audit quality assurance mechanisms, prioritizing auditor expertise, and adopting a collaborative approach to tax audits. These recommendations aim to improve tax compliance, revenue collection, and the overall efficiency of the tax system.

Keywords: Tax Audit Effectiveness, Organizational Independence, Top Management Support, Awareness Level of Tax payers, Audit Quality, staff Experience, ,

Suggested Citation:

Chekole Tekle, Kiflu and Abera Lemma, Alemayehu and Amassgaha, Getachew Gobena, Determinants of Tax Audit Effectiveness: The Case of Addis Ababa City Administration Number One Medium Tax Payer Branch Office (June 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4939587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4939587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
RANK
495,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies