Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Institutional Investors and Dividends: The Corporate Governance Role of Cross-Listing

42 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2024

Geeta Geeta

IBS Hyderabad (IFHE)

Satish Kumar

ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE)

Rajesh Pathak

Goa Institute of Management

Abstract

We examine the corporate governance role of cross listing on the relation between foreign institutional investors’ (FIIs) and dividends. Using a sample of 1583 publicly traded unique firms from 2010 to 2022, we find that the positive relation between FIIs and dividends weakens in cross listed firms. We show that agency problems and information asymmetry problems drive our results. We validate this assertion by showing that the positive relation between FIIs and dividend payments is less pronounced for those cross listed firms affiliated to business groups, for firms with more free cash flows and low growth opportunities.

Keywords: Cross listing, Dividend, Foreign institutional investors, India, Signaling.

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Geeta and Kumar, Satish and Pathak, Rajesh, Foreign Institutional Investors and Dividends: The Corporate Governance Role of Cross-Listing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4939088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4939088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
W Abdallah , M Goergen
The impact of a cross listing on dividend policy
International Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 72 Posted: 2008
F Adjaoud , W Ben-Amar
Corporate governance and dividend policy: shareholders' protection or expropriation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5-6 , p. 648 - 667 Posted: 2010
N Attig , N Boubakri , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
The global financial crisis, family control, and dividend policy
Financial Management , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 313 Posted: 2016
N Baba
Increased presence of foreign investors and dividend policy of Japanese firms
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies