Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship of Environmental Disclosure of Renewable Energy, Carbon Emissions, Waste Management, Water Consumption, and Banks’ Financial Performance

International Journal of Energy Economics and Policy, volume 14, issue 2, 2024[10.32479/ijeep.15488]

10 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024

Yinka Lydia Emmanuel

Department of Accounting and Finance, Bowen University, Nigeria

Mischelle Doorasamy

University of KwaZulu-Natal - Faculty of Commerce & Management (Westville Campus)

Jerry Kwarbai

Babcock University

Adegbola Olubukola Otekunrin

Bowen University

Uche Abamba Osakede

Bowen University

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, sustainable banking principles have been employed in the daily operations of deposit money banks in Nigeria. This study examines the relationship between environmental sustainability and the financial performance of 14 deposit money banks listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group. It focuses on the impact of environmental disclosure of renewable energy, carbon emissions, waste management, and water consumption (i.e. proxies for environment sustainability) on the bank's return on assets (ROA i.e. proxy for financial performance). The research spans an 8-year period from 2013 to 2021, using panel data and multiple regression analysis to analyze the data. The data is collected from the annual reports of the deposit money banks listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group. The research design is ex-post facto, utilizing secondary data collection methods. The findings suggest that there is a positive but insignificant association between environmental sustainability indicators (renewable energy, carbon emissions, waste management, and water consumption) and financial performance (ROA). In conclusion, the study finds no significant relationship between and financial performance (ROA).

Keywords: Carbon Emission Disclosure, Financial Performance, Sustainable Banking JEL Classifications: C1

Suggested Citation:

Emmanuel, Yinka Lydia and Doorasamy, Mischelle and Kwarbai, Jerry Danjuma and Otekunrin, Adegbola Olubukola and Osakede, Uche Abamba, Relationship of Environmental Disclosure of Renewable Energy, Carbon Emissions, Waste Management, Water Consumption, and Banks’ Financial Performance (August 30, 2024). International Journal of Energy Economics and Policy, volume 14, issue 2, 2024[10.32479/ijeep.15488], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4941213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.32479/ijeep.15488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
I R Abubakar , K M Maniruzzaman , U L Dano , F S Alshihri , M S Alshammari , S M S Ahmed , W A G Al-Gehlani , T I Alrawaf
Environmental sustainability impacts of solid waste management practices in the global South
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health , volume 19 , issue 19 Posted: 2022
K Alexander , P Fisher
Banking Regulation and Sustainability Posted: 2018
I Ali , N Ayub , N Husin , B Alrazi
Water Disclosure and Financial Performance: The Case of CDP Water A-list Companies. Social and Behavioural Sciences
th International Economics and Business Management Conference Posted: 2020
I M Ali , N M Husin , B Alrazi
The Effect of corporate water disclosure on financial performance
IOP Conference Series. Earth and Environmental Science , volume 943 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
310,156
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies