Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybrid Machine Learning Models Using Soft Voting Classifier for Financial Distress Prediction

19 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2024

Minh Nguyen

Florida Atlantic University

Kien Cao-Van

Nguyen Tat Thanh University

Le Gia Minh

Nguyen Tat Thanh University

Tung X. Bui

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Sukhwa Hong

University of Hawaii at Manoa - UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

The majority of studies in financial distress prediction primarily focus on accuracy as the main evaluation metric, often resulting in biased predictive performance towards the majority class due to imbalanced data common in financial markets. Additionally, most studies employ single machine learning models. Our research addresses these gaps by combining hybrid machine learning models, transforming imbalanced data to balanced data, and using balanced accuracy as a more appropriate evaluation metric. We first construct six single models and then combine them into various hybrid models. We compare the performance of single and hybrid models using balanced accuracy and other predictive criteria. Our findings reveal that the best hybrid model outperforms the best single model in both balanced accuracy and overall accuracy. However, it is important to note that not all hybrid models consistently outperform single models, suggesting that hybrid machine learning models are double-edged swords for financial distress prediction. Notably, hybrid-2 models emerge as the top-performing hybrid models in terms of both balanced accuracy and overall accuracy. This indicates that combining too many models does not necessarily improve predictive performance. It is important to note that the good practice in general and the specific hybrid machine learning models proposed in our paper can be applied to not only financial models but also non-financial models with imbalanced data in various fields.

Keywords: financial distress, hybrid models, soft voting classifier, machine learning

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Minh and Cao-Van, Kien and Minh, Le Gia and Bui, Tung X. and Hong, Sukhwa, Hybrid Machine Learning Models Using Soft Voting Classifier for Financial Distress Prediction (August 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4941751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4941751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J A Adisa , S O Ojo , P A Owolawi , A B Pretorius
Financial distress prediction: Principle component analysis and artificial neural networks
2019 International Multidisciplinary Information Technology and Engineering Conference (IMITEC) , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2019
Al Ali , A Khedr , A M El Bannany , M Kanakkayil , S
GALSTM-FDP: A time-series modeling approach using hybrid GA and LSTM for financial distress prediction
International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
K Cao-Van , T C Minh , L G Minh , T T Be Quyen , H M Tan
Soft-voting ensemble model: An efficient learning approach for predictive prostate cancer risk
Vietnam Journal of Computer Science Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
327,219
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies