Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lowering Their Carbon Footprint and Improving Worker Benefits: Does the Public Expect Businesses to “Do it All”?

35 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2024

Michael A. Quinn

Bentley University

Patrick A. Scholten

Bentley University - Department of Economics

Abstract

Stakeholders expect firms to pursue a multitude of social and environmental corporate social responsibility (CSR) goals. This paper utilizes the Bentley-Gallup survey on attitudes towards business to examine if people view firms’ CSR goals as complements to be achieved simultaneously with the goal of generating greater value than an individual CSR goal, or as substitutes that collectively divert investment or divert management’s attentions from its primary business object.  Regression analyses find that, despite firms substituting between CSR goals, people view goals generally as complements and want them accomplished together.  Results find that people who value social goals also simultaneously expect firms to pursue goals related to the environment and to workers’ rights.  However, people who place a high value on environmental goals are not significantly influenced by the firm valuing other CSR goals. The valuation of different CSR goals varies by demographics, education attainment, and income levels of respondents. The results suggest a complex relationship of stakeholder CSR expectations of which firms should be aware before substituting between CSR goals.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, social, environmental, workers, Gallup

Suggested Citation:

Quinn, Michael A. and Scholten, Patrick A., Lowering Their Carbon Footprint and Improving Worker Benefits: Does the Public Expect Businesses to “Do it All”?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4942994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4942994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Stuart Albert , David A Whetten
Organizational Identity
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 7 , p. 263 - 295 Posted: 1985
Ronald D Anderson , L Jack , Helmut Engledow , Becker
Evaluating the relationships among attitude toward business, product satisfaction, experience, and search effort
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 394 - 400 Posted: 1979
Izaskun Aramburu , Irune Agirre , Pescador Gómez
The effects of corporate social responsibility on customer loyalty: The mediating effect of reputation in cooperative banks versus commercial banks in the Basque country
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 154 , p. 701 - 719 Posted: 2019
Augusto Bargoni , Tomas Kliestik , Fauzia Jabeen , Gabriele Santoro
Family firms' characteristics and consumer behaviour: An enquiry into millennials' purchase intention in the online channel
Journal of Business Research , volume 156 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
237
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies