Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Musk's $56 billion: Pay, Incentives, or Rewards?

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1010/2024

Fox School of Business Research Paper

42 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2024

Jeffrey L. Coles

University of Utah - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Naveen D. Daniel

Drexel University - Department of Finance

Lalitha Naveen

Temple University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

The pay package of Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla, has featured prominently in the news in recent months. Articles related to the size of his pay and the legal battle over the pay package have appeared in numerous media outlets including the Wall Street Journal, Fortune, CBS News, Barron's, PBS News, Reuters, and NPR, to name just a few. The most frequently mentioned headline number for the CEO's compensation is $56 billion. Even a cursory study of the pay package, however, shows that this number is not the CEO's annual pay, which is the usual focus of comparison across CEOs by media and academics. We perform a detailed analysis of Tesla's compensation contract and make three contributions. (i) We find that the compensation design is consistent with sound contracting principles. (ii) We use the Tesla case study to focus attention on three critical elements of CEO compensation: the cost to the company ("annual pay"), the incentives embedded in the pay package to motivate the CEO's future performance, and the estimated maximum rewards to the CEO based on these performance incentives. (iii) We show that the sound-bite figure of $56 billon is not the cost, is not the incentives, and is only loosely related to the estimated maximum rewards to the CEO.

Keywords: G32, G34 Executive Compensation, CEO Pay, CEO Incentives, CEO Rewards, Tesla, Elon Musk, $56 billion

Declaration of Interest

No personal or financial relationship

Funder Statement

No funding received

Suggested Citation:

Coles, Jeffrey L. and Daniel, Naveen D. and Naveen, Lalitha, Musk's $56 billion: Pay, Incentives, or Rewards? (August 30, 2024). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1010/2024, Fox School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4942066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4942066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
728
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,461
RANK
80,465
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies