Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Undergraduate Natural Disaster Experiences and Corporate Social Performance

55 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2024

Yixuan Kang

Harbin Institute of Technology

Chao Yin

University of Edinburgh

Fusheng Wang

Harbin Institute of Technology

Xin Ding

Northeast Forestry University

Abstract

Our paper investigates the relationship between CEOs’ experiences of natural disasters during their undergraduate studies and the ESG performance of their firms. Using a panel dataset of U.S. listed firms, we find that, on average, companies led by these CEOs achieve superior ESG performance. Consistent with the predictions of availability heuristic theory, the effect is stronger for the Environmental dimension of ESG and when the experienced disaster is climate related. Our findings are independent of the effects of childhood disaster experiences documented by previous studies and have greater economic significance. The psychological characteristics of emerging adulthood, along with the education received during the undergraduate years, both play significant roles in this relationship.

Keywords: CEO, ESG, Availability Heuristic, Upper Echelons, Natural Disaster Experiences

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Yixuan and Yin, Chao and Wang, Fusheng and Ding, Xin, CEO Undergraduate Natural Disaster Experiences and Corporate Social Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4942187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4942187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
J S Ahn , A G Assaf , A Josiassen , M A Baker , S Lee , F Kock , M G Tsionas
Narcissistic CEOs and corporate social responsibility: Does the role of an outside board of directors matter?
International Journal of Hospitality , volume 85 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Risk: Theory and Empirical Evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2018
M D Amore , M Bennedsen , B Larsen , P Rosenbaum
Ceo Education and Corporate Environmental Footprint
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 94 , p. 254 - 273 Posted: 2019
J J Arnett , R Žukauskienė , K Sugimura
The new life stage of emerging adulthood at ages 18-29 years: implications for mental health
The Lancet Psychiatry , volume 1 , issue 7 , p. 569 - 576 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
RANK
524,565
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies