Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech Literacy and Lending Among Micro Steel Enterprises in Punjab, India

Int. J. Revenue Management, Vol. 13, No. 4, 2023

Posted: 3 Oct 2024

Dr. Naresh Sachdev

PCTE Group of Institutes

Date Written: August 22, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of the study is to understand the perception held by micro steel enterprises in Punjab, India towards the role played by the use of FinTech in it. The study is quantitative in nature. A total of 400 micro steel enterprises have been approached from the state of Punjab. Here the statistical analyses including chi-square tests, principal component analysis, multiple linear regression and one-way ANOVA is used. The primary objective of this research was to present a comprehensive analysis of micro steel enterprises and their perceptions on the latest phenomenon introduced to business by the use of FinTech. The purpose of this study is to determine whether or not these businesses are aware of FinTech's availability as a technology aid to funding sources. The study is a novel attempt to understand the micro steel enterprises in the Punjab and its perception towards the use of FinTech.

Keywords: micro, steel, FinTech, enterprises, finance, micro small and medium enterprises, MSME, India

Suggested Citation:

Sachdev, Naresh, Fintech Literacy and Lending Among Micro Steel Enterprises in Punjab, India (August 22, 2022). Int. J. Revenue Management, Vol. 13, No. 4, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4943301
 Not Available for Download
28 References
K Abbasi , A Alam , M A Du , T L D Huynh
FinTech, SME efficiency and national culture: evidence from OECD countries
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 163 Posted: 2021
Q Abidi
Indian FinTech: an industry perspective Posted: 2021-03-20
O Acar , Y E Çıtak
FinTech integration process suggestion for banks
Procedia Computer Science , volume 158 Posted: 2019
R Akyuwen , M Nanere , V Ratten , V Ratten
Technology entrepreneurship: FinTech lending in Indonesia
Entrepreneurial Innovation. Studies on Entrepreneurship, Structural Change and Industrial Dynamics Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies