Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robot Adoption of Family Firms: The Role of Family Non-Executive Directors

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 4, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-08-2023-0089]

29 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2024

Shanzhong Du

Sun Yat-sen University

June Cao

University of Southampton

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-Industrial robots are of great significance to the long-term development of family firms. Drawing on the lens of the principal-principal conflict, this paper aims to investigate the influence of family non-executive directors on robot adoption in Chinese family firms. 

Design/methodology/approach-This paper selects the family firms in China from 2011 to 2019 as the sample. Furthermore, the authors manually collected the family non-executive directors and constructed the robot adoption variable utilizing data sourced from the International Federation of Robotics. In brief, this paper constructs a comprehensive framework of the mechanisms and additional tests pertaining to the influence of family non-executive directors on robot adoption. 
Findings-This paper finds that family non-executive directors can promote robot adoption in family firms. The underlying mechanism analysis shows that family non-executive directors promote robot adoption by exerting financial and human effects. This paper further finds that the characteristics of family non-executive directors, such as kinship, differential shareholding and excessive directors, affect the role of family nonexecutive directors. Finally, robot adoption can improve future performance, and the promotional effect is more evident when family members are non-executive directors. 
Originality/value-This paper contributes to the related literature from the following two aspects. Firstly, this paper decomposes the types of family directors to understand the role of family non-executive directors, which challenges the assumption that family board members are homogeneous in family firms. Second, this paper expands the research on the factors that influence robot adoption in emerging economies from the microenterprise level. In addition, the findings in this paper have managerial implications for family firms to optimize their strategic decisions with the help of the mode of board right allocation.

Keywords: Family non-executive directors, Robot adoption, Family firms

Suggested Citation:

Du, Shanzhong and Cao, June, Robot Adoption of Family Firms: The Role of Family Non-Executive Directors (September 01, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 4, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-08-2023-0089], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4944814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Abeliansky , K Prettner
Automation and demographic change Posted: 2017
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labour markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The wrong kind of AI? Artificial intelligence and the future of labour demand
Cambridge Journal of Regions Economy and Society , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 35 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies