Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Digital Transformation and Rank and File Employee Satisfaction

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 4, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-08-2023-0101]

27 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2024

Bo Zhang

School of Business, Renmin University of China

Shengjun Wang

Renmin University of China

Ruixue Zhou

Jinan University

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This paper examines the impact of corporate digital transformation on employee satisfaction. Therefore, this study extends our understanding of the economic consequences of corporate digital transformation from employees' perspectives. 

Design/methodology/approach-The data used to construct our main proxy of employee satisfaction are collected from Kanzhun.com, which provides reviews by rank-and-file employees on their employers. This study uses a large sample of Chinese firms and adopts various empirical methods to examine the impact of digital transformation on employee satisfaction. 
Findings-We find a significant positive relationship between corporate digital transformation and employee satisfaction. Moreover, we document that the relationship between corporate digital transformation and employee satisfaction is more pronounced in firms with higher labor intensity and in state-owned enterprises (SOE). 
Research limitations/implications-One significant limitation is that corporate digital transformation is constructed based on word frequency analysis. This approach may be influenced by variations in corporate disclosure practices and might not accurately capture the true extent of corporate digital transformation. This limitation is not only present in our research but is also pervasive in many other studies that utilize similar methodologies. Therefore, our results should be interpreted with this caveat in mind. 
Practical implications-Our study suggests that corporate digital transformation enhances employee satisfaction, providing direct evidence for managers and regulators to promote corporate digital transformation. Through digital transformation, companies can not only improve operational efficiency but also foster employee satisfaction. This dual benefit underscores the importance of investing in corporate digital transformation for long-term success. 
Social implications-Our study suggests that corporate digital transformation enhances employee satisfaction, providing direct evidence for managers and regulators to promote corporate digital transformation. Through digital transformation, companies can not only improve operational efficiency but also foster employee satisfaction. This dual benefit underscores the importance of investing in corporate digital transformation for long-term success. 
Originality/value-Our study contributes to the literature on the economic consequences of corporate digital transformation and extends existing research on the determinants of employee satisfaction. Additionally, it provides a novel measurement of employee satisfaction for a large sample of Chinese firms.

Keywords: Corporate digital transformation, Employee satisfaction, Rank and file employee

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Bo and Wang, Shengjun and Zhou, Ruixue, Corporate Digital Transformation and Rank and File Employee Satisfaction (September 01, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 26, issue 4, 2024 [10.1108/CAFR-08-2023-0101], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4944838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from US labor markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 6 , p. 2188 - 2244 Posted: 2020
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
D P Bhave , L H Teo , R S Dalal
Privacy at work: A review and a research agenda for a contested terrain
Journal of Management , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 164 Posted: 2020
K Bochkay , S V Brown , A J Leone , J W Tucker
Textual analysis in accounting: What's next
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 765 - 805 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
RANK
833,930
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies