Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Innovation Outcomes and Trade Credit Financing

55 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024 Last revised: 14 Aug 2025

Chang Suk Bae

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Jen Choi

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Jeong Ho (John) Kim

Florida State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 14, 2024

Abstract

How a firm's innovation affects the firm's relationship with its trading partners remains underexplored. We empirically analyze the effect of firm innovation outcomes on a key dimension of supply chain relationship---trade credit. We find that, following patent issuance, firms receive and use more trade credit from their suppliers in subsequent years. This effect is more pronounced (i) when firms are issued patents with a larger potential for market growth, (ii) when the suppliers are technologically more relevant to the patents, or (iii) when the suppliers face a higher risk of losing the firms as customers. We also find an important business-cycle variation in the link between innovation and trade credit: innovative firms receive and use more trade credit during periods of limited access to bank credit. Overall, our findings provide insights into how innovation shapes supply chain relationships, highlighting trade credit as a strategic tool for suppliers to secure business relationships with innovative customers.

Keywords: Innovation, Supply Chain Relationship, Trade Credit

JEL Classification: G32, L14, O30

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Chang Suk and Choi, Jae Eun and Kim, Jeong Ho, Firm Innovation Outcomes and Trade Credit Financing (August 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4945763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4945763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
W J Abernathy , J M Utterback
Patterns of industrial innovation
Technology review , volume 80 , issue 7 , p. 40 - 47 Posted: 1978
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American economic review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
P Antràs , C F Foley
Poultry in motion: A study of international trade finance practices
Journal of Political Economy , volume 123 , issue 4 , p. 853 - 901 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
556,453
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies