Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chief Executive Officer's Attributes and Firm Performance: A Review of the Literature

13 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024

Nosakhare Friday UWAIFO

University of Benin

Omena Igbinoba

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 06, 2023

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to provide a review of prior empirical literature on the impact of Chief Executive Officer's (CEO's) attributes on firm performance. The archival research strategy was adopted in the study. The information used in the study was gotten from published articles and books. Based on the literature reviewed, we observed that most studies on the impact of CEO attribute on firm performance used only financial indicators to proxy firm performance there by ignoring the nonfinancial performance measures. The financial measure is not a holistic measure of firm performance; there are other non-financial measures that are also used to determine the performance of a firm. The study also observed that there is a dearth of literature on CEO culture and CEO nationality on firm performance in Nigeria. The study therefore recommends that further studies should look at the impact of CEO culture and CEO nationality on firm performance in Nigeria using a combination of financial and non-financial measure.

Keywords: Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Firm Performance, CEO Attributes

Suggested Citation:

UWAIFO, Nosakhare Friday and Igbinoba, Omena, Chief Executive Officer's Attributes and Firm Performance: A Review of the Literature (January 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4945466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4945466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S Abdullah
Board composition, CEO duality and performances among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: Longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
M Almashhadani , H A Almashhadani
CEO duality and firm performance: A review from the Middle East perspective
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 60 Posted: 2022
A T Berkeley
Does leadership make a difference to organizational performance?
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 33 , p. 388 - 400 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
697,608
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies