Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unveiling the Veil: Predicting Potential Shell Firms Using Machine Learning Approach

37 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2024

Zijian Cheng

Shandong University at Weihai

Tianze Li

Shandong University at Weihai

Zhangxin (Frank) Liu

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Abstract

The approval-based initial public offering (IPO) system in China contributed to the persistence of undisclosed shell firms. In this study, we apply machine learning (ML) techniques to identify potential shell firms involved in reverse mergers (RMs). Our findings reveal that these shell firms are typically overvalued and less responsive to market trends. The ML model outperforms traditional logistic models in distinguishing shell firms from regular firms, offering superior explanatory power. A cost-based analysis indicates that the model’s errors do not impose significant additional burdens on investors, auditors, or regulators. This research extends the RM literature by examining the antecedents of RM transactions and shedding light on the market inefficiencies introduced by IPO control systems, providing valuable insights for both developed and developing economies.

Keywords: Machine Learning, Shell Firms, Reverse Mergers, IPO Control

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Zijian and Li, Tianze and Liu, Zhangxin (Frank), Unveiling the Veil: Predicting Potential Shell Firms Using Machine Learning Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4946721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4946721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A S Glassner
Deep learning: a visual approach Posted: 2021
F Adjei , K B Cyree , M M Walker
The determinants and survival of r everse mergers vs IPOs
Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 176 - 194 Posted: 2008
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting Accounting Fra ud in Publicly Traded U.S. Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach
Journ al of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
M Beneish , P Vorst
The Cost of Fraud Prediction Errors
The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies