Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Credit Ratings Reflect Private Information about SEC Investigations?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Xue Wang

Ohio State University - Fisher College of Business

Daniel Yang

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management; Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

Despite private access to managers, issuer-paid credit rating agencies (CRAs) are often criticized for failing to promptly reflect material negative private information in their ratings and being ineffective corporate watchdogs. We utilize a novel dataset of private SEC investigations to examine the timeliness and informativeness of CRAs' rating adjustments in response to material negative private information. Our evidence suggests that CRAs adjust ratings downward within a quarter following the opening of an SEC investigation. Moreover, these adjustments are over three times larger for those investigations that ultimately yield an enforcement action than for those that do not, suggesting that CRAs quickly form sophisticated expectations about the materiality of the private information. Additionally, rating downgrades during the investigations are more informative to the stock market than other rating downgrades. Overall, our evidence suggests that CRAs reduce information asymmetry in the capital markets by timely incorporating material private information in their ratings.

Keywords: credit ratings, private information, SEC investigations, financial misconduct

JEL Classification: D82, G24, G30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Donovan, John and Holzman, Eric and Wang, Xue and Yang, Daniel, Do Credit Ratings Reflect Private Information about SEC Investigations? (September 05, 2024). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M Ahn , S B Bonsall , A Van Buskirk
Do managers withhold bad news from credit rating agencies?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 972 - 1021 Posted: 2019
A Alp
Structural shifts in credit rating standards
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 6 , p. 2435 - 2470 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
R P Baghai , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Have rating agencies become more conservative? Implications for capital structure and debt pricing
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 1961 - 2005 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,094
RANK
231,609
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies