Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Endogenous Corporate Disclosure During the COVID-19 Lockdown

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2024

Yeejin Jang

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Banking and Finance

Taehyun Kim

Chung-Ang University

Jongsub Lee

Seoul National University; University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

Amid state-level COVID-19 lockdowns, we compare firms filing financial statements during the lockdown (treated) to those reporting just before the lockdown (control). Lockdowns significantly constrained social mobility and the sharing of soft information between managers and investors. In response, treated firms disclosed more accounting details, especially those requiring external funding or involving hard-to-value assets and substantial trade credits. Larger firms with extensive institutional ownership and broad auditor coverage exhibited fewer such tendencies. Increasing hard information improved earnings forecasts and curtailed external funding costs. Our findings suggest a shift from soft to hard information sharing during economic uncertainty, which helps alleviate the information asymmetry between corporate insiders and outsiders.

Keywords: Information asymmetry, COVID-19 lockdown, limited soft information sharing, endogenous disclosure, financial reporting

JEL Classification: G14, G32, M40, O32

Suggested Citation:

Jang, Yeejin and Kim, Taehyun and Lee, Jongsub, Endogenous Corporate Disclosure During the COVID-19 Lockdown (September 05, 2024). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , S Steffen
The risk of being a fallen angel and the corporate dash for cash in the midst of covid
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , p. 430 - 471 Posted: 2020
C Adolph , K Amano , B Bang-Jensen , N Fullman , J Wilkerson
Pandemic politics: Timing state-level social distancing responses to covid-19
Journal of Health Politics , volume 46 , p. 211 - 233 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
RANK
672,649
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies