Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Convergence with International Standards on Auditing Improve Audit Quality?

53 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Cyndia Wang

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Yaqian Wu

Nanjing Agricultural University (NAU) - College of Finance

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

Many countries have converged their domestic auditing standards with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). This study provides global empirical evidence on first-order determinants of audit quality by examining whether and how convergence affects audit quality through utilizing data on 41 jurisdictions and employing a staggered difference-indifferences approach. We find that ISA convergence leads to higher audit quality on average. The positive effect is stronger for clients of domestic audit firms, in jurisdictions with stronger enforcement, and when the ISA convergence level is higher. Insights from textual features suggest that changes in principle-orientation, comparability, readability, and size (or length) of auditing standards are positively related to audit quality. Exploratory analyses of textual content using machine learning reveal that the emphases of ISA on going-concern assessment and legal compliance, fraud-risk assessment and internal-control evaluation, and related-party transactions and subsequent events contribute to enhanced audit quality.

Keywords: International Standards on Auditing, Audit Quality, Audit Firms, Enforcement, Auditing Standards International Standards on Auditing, Audit Quality, Audit Firms, Enforcement, Auditing Standards

Ethics Approval

No human subjects

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Wang, Cyndia and Wu, Yaqian and Zhang, Min, Does Convergence with International Standards on Auditing Improve Audit Quality? (September 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
K E Atkinson , C W Taylor , D L Flesher , M H Stocks
The impact of accounting standards on audit firm switch rates
International Journal of Auditing , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 215 - 229 Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Xiaoqi Chen , Jia Liu , Wouter Torsin
The Employment Non‐Discrimination Act and Board Gender Diversity
British Journal of Management Posted: 2025
Crossref
Xingqiang Du , Lirong Shentu , Yuhui Xie
The Shadow of Peer Death: Evidence from Audit Office
29 Pages · Posted: 16 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 7 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
131,230
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies