Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aligning Incentives for CSR: When Does Director Compensation Matter?

52 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Mieke Dingenen

IESEG School of Management

Ann Gaeremynck

KULeuven- Faculty of Economics and Business

Dieter Smeulders

University of Bern

Date Written: June 28, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether and under which circumstances outside director incentive compensation enhances a firm’s CSR performance. Consistent with dual agency theory, we find that, overall, outside director incentive compensation is positively associated with CSR performance. However, our results further indicate that the formal institutionalization of CSR – through the establishment of a CSR committee or the adoption of CSR contracting for the CEO – acts as a substitute for outside director incentive compensation. Similarly, CEO duality weakens the outside director incentive compensation – CSR relationship. We hereby illustrate that the governance context of the firm proves to be highly relevant. A ‘one size fits all’ argument to explain the effectiveness of outside director incentive compensation in enhancing CSR performance does not seem to hold.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, outside director incentive compensation, dual agency theory, CSR institutionalization, CEO power

Funder Statement

Mieke Dingenen acknowledges financial support from The Research Foundation – Flanders (project number 11|8723N).

JEL Classification: G3, Q56, J33

Suggested Citation:

Dingenen, Mieke and Gaeremynck, Ann and Smeulders, Dieter, Aligning Incentives for CSR: When Does Director Compensation Matter? (June 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies