Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Digital Dilemma: Corporate Digital Transformation and Default Risk

71 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024 Last revised: 19 Dec 2024

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Yufei Lu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: December 19, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the association between corporate digital transformation and default risk for a sample of Chinese-listed firms from 2009 to 2022. We find a robust positive association between digital transformation and corporate default risk. The results are confirmed by instrumental variables and difference-in-differences estimation that support a causal interpretation. Further tests reveal the destabilizing impact of digital adoption strengthens under greater competition, human capital intensity, shareholder expropriation, and weak monitoring. The additional analysis points to resource misallocation and managerial manipulations as two potential channels propagating distress. We show that digital transformation correlates with escalated asset impairments and financial frauds. Our study provides evidence that digital transformation strategies entail underappreciated risks to financial stability.

Keywords: corporate default risk, financial stability, digital transformation, technology strategy

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Kai and Lu, Yufei, The Digital Dilemma: Corporate Digital Transformation and Default Risk (December 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R Adner , R Kapoor
Innovation ecosystems and the pace of substitution: Reexamining technology S-curves
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , p. 625 - 648 Posted: 2016
I Aguir , N Boubakri , M Marra , L Zhu
Gender diversity in leadership: Empirical evidence on firm credit risk
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 69 Posted: 2023
A Akerman , I Gaarder , M Mogstad
The skill complementarity of broadband internet
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 130 , p. 1781 - 1824 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
551
RANK
596,846
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies