Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Out with the Old and in with the New: Audit Committee Refreshment and Monitoring Effectiveness

54 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Mieke Dingenen

IESEG School of Management

Ann Gaeremynck

KULeuven- Faculty of Economics and Business

Dieter Smeulders

University of Bern

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

Refreshment of the board and its associated committees is an important issue in corporate governance. In this study, we specifically focus on refreshments at the audit committee level, given their important task of overseeing the financial reporting process. We argue that director replacements might be a viable strategy to induce refreshment of the audit committee. We hereby distinguish between externally and internally recruited incoming directors and focus on the profile of the incoming directors with respect to the incumbent audit committee members. Audit committee monitoring effectiveness is proxied by financial restatements and earnings quality. Using entropy balancing, we find no direct effect of director replacements on audit committee monitoring effectiveness. The same holds when distinguishing between externally and internally recruited new directors. However, our findings do indicate that director replacements are a viable strategy to refresh the audit committee, but only if the incoming director is sufficiently different from the incumbent audit committee members. This result is stronger for externally recruited directors. Understanding the positive effects of audit committee refreshment should be of interest to regulators and companies alike.

Keywords: audit committee, refreshment, director replacement, dissimilarity, monitoring effectiveness

Funder Statement

Mieke Dingenen gratefully acknowledges the funding received from Research Foundation Flanders (FWO - project number 11|8723N).

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dingenen, Mieke and Gaeremynck, Ann and Smeulders, Dieter, Out with the Old and in with the New: Audit Committee Refreshment and Monitoring Effectiveness (December 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
591
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies