Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of the Government Subsidy Accounting Change

59 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wei Shi

Deakin University

Chao Yan

Independent

Ziyi Zhang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 31, 2024

Abstract

We analyze the real effects of a 2017 change in accounting standards that permits Chinese firms to recognize government subsidies as part of operating income instead of only recognizing them below the line of operating income. This setting represents a late and standalone adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on government subsidies, thus facilitating the causal inference of the impact of the government subsidy accounting rule. Using a difference-in-differences framework around this natural experiment, we find that firms receiving more government subsidies prior to the rule change (“treated” firms) experience significant increases in investment but suffer from lower investment efficiency compared to firms receiving fewer government subsidies (“control” firms). Further analysis reveals that treated firms exhibit significant increases in equity misvaluation post the accounting change, particularly when subsidies are less persistent, retail investor ownership increases, or information environments are more opaque. These firms are also more likely to raise larger amounts of external equity financing following increased misvaluation. Alternative explanations via the learning or contracting channel are unlikely to account for these observed real effects. By demonstrating how a seemingly technical accounting presentation change can distort capital allocation through investor misperception of subsidy persistence, our findings highlight important unintended consequences for standard-setters considering similar IFRS-based subsidy recognition rules globally.

Keywords: Government Subsidy Accounting, Real Effects, Operating Income, Overinvestment, Equity Misvaluation

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H20, G41, G14, G31

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Shi, Wei and Yan, Chao and Zhang, Ziyi, Real Effects of the Government Subsidy Accounting Change (August 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
B N Adebambo , X Yan
Investor overconfidence, firm valuation, and corporate decisions
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 11 , p. 5349 - 5369 Posted: 2018
K Aretz , M Campello , M Marchica
Access to collateral and the democratization of credit: France's reform of the Napoleonic Security Code
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 90 Posted: 2020
B A Badertscher
Overvaluation and the choice of alternative earnings management mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2011
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,181
RANK
299,785
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies