Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillovers from Regulatory Fragmentation: Evidence from Corporate Tax Burdens

59 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2024

John Manuel Barrios

Yale School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Yongzhao (Vincent) Lin

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: January 01, 2024

Abstract

Increased corporation regulation in recent decades has raised the likelihood of regulatory oversight spillovers-the extent to which one agency's interactions with a regulated firm affects firm behaviors under the purview of another agency. We study how such spillovers can affect the mission of a specific regulator-the tax authority-using a measure of firm-specific exposure to fragmented regulation. Using a sample of publicly-traded U.S. firms, we document that regulatory fragmentation is associated with higher effective tax rates, indicating that non-IRS oversight constrains tax planning, which is the purview of the tax authority. This relation is increasing in the overall amount of regulation the firm faces and in the relative absence of alternative (e.g., capital market) monitors. Additionally, we observe that regulatory fragmentation is associated with lower IRS scrutiny and less variation in tax burdens within industries, suggesting that fragmented oversight impacts IRS monitoring efforts as well as industry competitive dynamics.

Keywords: corporate taxes, tax planning, regulatory spillover, regulation, IRS

JEL Classification: H25, H26, L21, L51, M4, P43

Suggested Citation:

Barrios, John Manuel and Gallemore, John and Lin, Yongzhao (Vincent), Spillovers from Regulatory Fragmentation: Evidence from Corporate Tax Burdens (January 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4950361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4950361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
187,924
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies