Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptualizing Intangible Assetization. Entangled Processes and Controversies in a Public Context

48 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2024

Laure Célérier

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eve Chiapello

Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Abstract

The article proposes a conceptual framework to account for initiatives aimed at identifying and managing intangible assets. In contrast to recent work proposing a narrow definition of assetization rooted in a financial definition of assets, we highlight the variety of forms of assetization. We conceptualize intangible assetization as a process of transforming things into intangible assets. Intangible assetization requires some work and we construct four types of operations: the identification of what can be an intangible asset, the managization (the introduction of some management) of the identified assets, their commercialization (the search for ways of generating revenue from them), and finally their balance-sheetization (their inclusion in the balance sheet). Each of these is a trial of explicitness (Muniesa & Linhardt, 2011) that is enacting notably a certain conception of the accounting entity. This conceptual framework enables us to analyze an initiative by the French government, which in 2007 set up an in-house consultancy agency to promote the management of public intangible assets. Our analysis is based on 42 interviews and a collection of documents, from the inception in 2006, to 2021

Keywords: Assetization, Intangible asset, State reform, Trial of Explicitness

Suggested Citation:

Célérier, Laure and Chiapello, Eve and Jeny, Anne, Conceptualizing Intangible Assetization. Entangled Processes and Controversies in a Public Context. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4951946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4951946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
137 References
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
P Adhikari , L Gårseth-Nesbakk
Implementing public sector accruals in OECD member states: Major issues and challenges
Accounting Forum , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 142 Posted: 2016
Afp
Les couteaux Laguiole gagnent le combat contre les "contrefacteurs
L'Express -L'Expansion Posted: 2017-04-05
B Ajana
Branding, legitimation and the power of museums: The case of the Louvre Abu Dhabi
Museum and Society , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 316 - 335 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
649
RANK
747,544
137 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies