Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Silent Suffering: Using Machine Learning to Measure CEO Depression

76 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Nargess Golshan

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Sung-Yuan (Mark) Cheng

University of South Florida

Date Written: September 09, 2024

Abstract

We introduce a novel measure of CEO depression by applying machine learning models that analyze vocal acoustic features from CEOs’ conference call recordings. Our research was preregistered via the Journal of Accounting Research’s registration-based editorial process. In this study, we validate this measure and examine associated factors. We find that greater firm risk is positively associated with CEO depression, whereas higher job demands are negatively associated with CEO depression. Female and older CEOs show a lower likelihood of depression. Using this novel measure, we then explore the relationship between CEO depression and career outcomes. Although we do not find any evidence that CEO depression is associated with CEO turnover, we find some evidence that turnover-performance sensitivity is higher among depressed CEOs. We also find limited evidence of higher compensation and higher pay-performance sensitivity for depressed CEOs. This study provides new insights into the relationship between CEO mental health and career outcomes.

Keywords: CEO Depression, Affective Computing, Machine Learning, Vocal Acoustic Features, Career Outcomes

Ethics Approval

The Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) at Indiana University and the University of Kentucky have approved this study for exemption certification.

JEL Classification: G30, G41, J33

Suggested Citation:

Golshan, Nargess and Cheng, Sung-Yuan (Mark), Silent Suffering: Using Machine Learning to Measure CEO Depression (September 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4951519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4951519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
185 References
M Al-Mosaiwi , T Johnstone
In an absolute state: Elevated use of absolutist words is a marker specific to anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation
Clinical Psychological Science , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 529 - 542 Posted: 2018
S Alghowinem , R Goecke , M Wagner , J Epps , M Breakspear , G Parker
Detecting depression: A comparison between spontaneous and read speech
2013 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing , p. 7547 - 7551 Posted: 2013
M Alpert , E R Pouget , R R Silva
Reflections of depression in acoustic measures of the patient's speech
Journal of Affective Disorders , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 69 Posted: 2001
R C Anderson , C A Klofstad , W J Mayew , M Venkatachalam
Vocal fry may undermine the success of young women in the labor market
PloS One , volume 9 , issue 5 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
RANK
215,929
185 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies