Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Regulate Auditing? Externalities and the Limits of Regulation

28 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 04, 2025

Abstract

Good audits have benefits to the broader economy (externalities) that transcend the private benefits to companies that contract for audits. Since companies will only pay for the private benefit of an audit, there is a potential market failure in which audit quality is underproduced relative to the theoretical social optimum, which is Pigou’s (1920) classic argument for regulation to correct the market failure. While Pigou’s framework can identify the need for regulation, it cannot determine the optimum level of regulation. This means regulators must focus on the net benefits of regulations on a case-by-case basis, and not presume regulation is needed because of externalities, per se. Careful assessment of costs and benefits is necessary to prevent over-regulation that has potentially harmful consequences for audit firms and clients. However, this assessment is challenging given the difficulty in defining and measuring the benefits of higher quality audits, suggesting a need for caution and restraint in audit regulation.

Keywords: Audit externalities, spillovers, regulation, Pigou, social welfare, cost-benefit analysis JEL Classification: H23

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R., Why Regulate Auditing? Externalities and the Limits of Regulation (March 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4951469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4951469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
M Adler , E Posner
Rethinking cost-benefit analysis
Yale Law Journal , volume 109 , p. 165 - 247 Posted: 1999
Afm
Quality change of PIE audit firms too slow Posted: 2018
A Ahmed , M Mcanally , S Rasmussen , C Weaver
How costly is the Sarbanesoxley act? evidence of the effects of the act on corporate profitability
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 359 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
RANK
217,404
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies