Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressiveness in Corporate Financial and Tax Reporting: Do Employee Directors Matter? A Cross-Country Study

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, volume 58, 2025[10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2024.100673]

45 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

Phuong Nguyen Trang Doan

The University of Danang

Mieke Dingenen

IESEG School of Management

Ann Gaeremynck

KULeuven- Faculty of Economics and Business

Piet Sercu

FEB at KU Leuven

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether employee representation on a firm’s board (ERB) has an impact on aggressiveness in corporate financial and tax reporting. Using an international sample of 3,450 firms across 29 countries over the period 2012-2021, we find that ERB firms practice less income-increasing accruals management, real-earnings management and tax avoidance—consistent with a monitoring role for employee directors. Second, we present evidence that, at least for tax issues, this monitoring works even better when the board has desirable characteristics like more independent directors, a single-mandate CEO, and a majority shareholder. Third, we find that the monitoring effect is unaffected by the voluntary or law-imposed nature of ERB, but the useful interactions between the ERB effect and the desirable board characteristics are solely traced to the voluntary arrangements. Lastly, cross-sectional analyses show that younger, female and employee directors without shares are typically better monitors. 

Keywords: board of directors, employee directors, corporate aggressiveness, financial reporting, tax reporting, self-selection, cross-country setting

Funder Statement

This research is partly funded by the University of Danang, University of Economics, Vietnam. Mieke Dingenen gratefully acknowledges the funding received from Research Foundation Flanders (FWO - project number 11|8723N).

JEL Classification: G3, H26, N30

Suggested Citation:

Doan, Phuong Nguyen Trang and Dingenen, Mieke and Gaeremynck, Ann and Sercu, Piet M. F. A., Aggressiveness in Corporate Financial and Tax Reporting: Do Employee Directors Matter? A Cross-Country Study (January 31, 2024). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, volume 58, 2025[10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2024.100673], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2024.100673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
327
RANK
785,362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies