Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure, Audit Committee, And Financial Performance Of Listed Non-financial Firms In Nigeria

119 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024

Roqeeb Abiola Azeez

Independent

Date Written: May 22, 2024

Abstract

The motivation for this study stemed from the critical role that ownership structure and audit committees play in the financial performance of firms. Specifically, this study focused on listed non-financial firms in Nigeria, an area that has seen limited comprehensive research despite its economic significance. The primary objective was to examine the relationship between ownership structure, audit committee , and the financial performance of these firms.Using an ex post facto research design, data were collected from 75 non-financial firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group(NGX) over the period 2013-2022. The analysis employed robust regression techniques to account for issues such as heteroscedasticity and outliers. Key findings indicate that firms with a higher proportion of independent directors on the audit committee showed a 15% increase in return on assets (ROA), with a p-value of 0.03. Additionally, ownership concentration was negatively correlated with financial performance, with a correlation coefficient of -0.25.These results highlight the importance of corporate governance structures in enhancing firm performance. In conclusion, the study recommends that non-financial firms in Nigeria should strengthen their audit committees by increasing the number of independent directors and diversifying ownership structures to improve financial outcomes. Further research should explore the long-term impacts of these governance changes on firm performance.



Suggested Citation:

Azeez, Roqeeb Abiola, Ownership Structure, Audit Committee, And Financial Performance Of Listed Non-financial Firms In Nigeria (May 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4953529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
RANK
662,989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies