Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Wealth creation and forecast errors: Evidence from the Brazilian stock market and a discussion of previous results in the U.S. 

26 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024 Last revised: 14 Apr 2025

Edward Firmato Quady

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Economics

Date Written: November 26, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the contribution of accounting signals, an economic profit model and analyst forecasts to explain stock returns in a developing market context. Despite Brazilian lower accounting informativeness and substantial analyst forecast errors, we revive the usefulness of a residual income model in yielding higher risk-adjusted returns from quality securities and superior power to predict long-term returns. The results unveil analyst optimism and the book-to-market ratio as drivers of these forecasts errors and build an acknowledgeable test case for comparable emerging stock markets, helping improve the valuation approach standards and eventually the capital market allocation and efficiency in these markets.

Keywords: Asset Pricing, Fundamental Signals, Wealth Creation, Analyst earnings forecasts, Mispricing

Suggested Citation:

Firmato Quady, Marcus Edward,

Wealth creation and forecast errors: Evidence from the Brazilian stock market and a discussion of previous results in the U.S. 

(November 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4953657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
599
RANK
580,030
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies