Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Banks Leak: The Impact of Data Breaches on Loan Contracts

55 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Changhwan Choi

UIBE Business School, University of International Business and Economics

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Ge Yang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Xiaojia Zheng

University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: September 09, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates how cybersecurity breaches affect bank behavior in the syndicated loan market. Using 109 data breaches at U.S. banks from 2005 to 2017 and 14,497 associated loan contracts, we find that breached banks offer significantly larger loans at lower interest rates, consistent with weakened bargaining power due to reputational damage. The economic effect is sizable: the average bank forgoes approximately $16 million in interest income following a breach. The effect is amplified following more severe breaches and among borrowers with higher proprietary information costs, proxied by R&D intensity and industry competition. The impact is concentrated among reputable banks and borrowers with greater outside financing options and no prior breach history. Breached banks also extend loans with longer maturities and reduced collateral requirements, and are more likely to co-arrange deals with other lead banks. Borrowers receiving more favorable terms increase capital expenditures and acquisition activity, indicating real effects from cyber-induced shifts in credit conditions. These findings highlight the contractual and real economic consequences of data breaches and contribute to the literature on cybersecurity risk, financial intermediation, and reputational capital.

Keywords: Data breach, Reputation capital, Bargaining power, Bank loan contract

JEL Classification: G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Changhwan and Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Yang, Ge and Zheng, Xiaojia, When Banks Leak: The Impact of Data Breaches on Loan Contracts (September 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4954576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4954576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich , C Schiller
Hacking corporate reputations Posted: 2023
I Aldasoro , L Gambacorta , P Giudici , T Leach
Operational and cyber risks in the financial sector Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
331,544
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies