Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Policy Uncertainty and Earnings Management

23 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2024

Viet Tran

Wayne State University - Mike Ilitch School of Business

Abstract

I investigate how climate policy uncertainty (CPU) influences earnings management (EM). The analysis reveals that high levels of CPU are associated with a reduction in the absolute value of abnormal discretionary accruals. This relationship remains robust across two instrumental variable approaches and various internal and external governance factors. Additionally, I find that the negative association between CPU and EM is more pronounced in firms with a higher likelihood of financial distress, greater institutional investor monitoring, and stronger corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices.

Keywords: climate policy uncertainty, earnings management, discretionary accruals management

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Viet, Climate Policy Uncertainty and Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4954884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4954884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Predicting financial distress of companies: revisiting the Z-score and ZETA® models
Handbook of Research Methods and Applications in Empirical Finance , p. 428 - 456 Posted: 2013
M R Amin , A Akindayomi , M S R Sarker , R Bhuyan
Climate policy uncertainty and corporate tax avoidance
Finance Research Letters , volume 58 Posted: 2023
D Andrei , H Friedman , N B Ozel
Economic uncertainty and investor attention
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 149 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 217 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Lukas Timbate , Dereje Asrat , Kim Dong-Il , Seong Jun Hwang
Climate Policy and Financial Reporting Quality: How Will Trump's Re-Election Affect Carbon-Intensive Firms' Financial Reporting?
FRL-D-25-00350 · 25 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 36
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
527,931
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies