Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a Market for Credit Protection Increase Employment Risk?

49 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2024

Guo Chen

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Priyank Gandhi

Rutgers University, New Brunswick

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: August 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper looks at the introduction of Credit Default Swaps (CDS) and its effect on employment. CDS allow lenders to hedge their credit exposure making them tough negotiators in default. This increases the firm’s likelihood of bankruptcy and increases employment risk that leads to employee attrition. Presence of tough creditors also gives incentives to firm to follow conservative policies to mitigate the increased likelihood of distress. This disciplining effect results in firms decreasing employment to contain operating costs. We find that growth in employment is 55% lower in the years after CDS trading relative to the unconditional mean in a matched sample. This decrease in employment is not accompanied by a decrease in capital expenditures. The lower employment growth is sustained over the long term and predominantly in firms with high yield debt. Firms with CDS trading are more likely to undertake efficiency increasing layoffs and experience an increase in capital intensity along with increases in labor and total factor productivity.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Guo and Gandhi, Priyank and Kedia, Simi, Does a Market for Credit Protection Increase Employment Risk? (August 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4956889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4956889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies