Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure in the Face of Bank Runs

50 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Kevin D. Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Rahul Vashishtha

Duke University

Date Written: September 15, 2024

Abstract

Using a large sample of hand-collected data on banks’ public disclosure in the weeks following the collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), we study banks’ disclosure response in times of crisis when concerns about depositor runs are salient. We find that banks’ susceptibility to depositor coordination failures (i.e., panic runs) is a key factor influencing their disclosure strategies, including the incidence, content, and timing of the disclosures. The results are generally consistent with the theory of He and Manela (2016), which identifies a positive role of public disclosure in preventing panic-based runs. Our study provides some of the first evidence on the importance of coordination motives in shaping banks’ disclosure strategy. The results are relevant for information management in times of crisis, an important issue for both bank management and regulators. 

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Bank Runs, Coordination, Silicon Valley Bank

JEL Classification: G21, M40, D83

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kevin and Chen, Qi and Vashishtha, Rahul, Voluntary Disclosure in the Face of Bank Runs (September 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4957274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4957274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
H Anderson , A Copeland
Information management in times of crisis
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 136 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 2023
B A Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
The market reaction to bank regulatory reports
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 686 - 731 Posted: 2018
S Banerjee , M Maier
Public information precision and coordination failure: An experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 941 - 986 Posted: 2016
A N Berger , C H Bouwman
Bank liquidity creation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3779 - 3837 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
992
RANK
280,604
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies