Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Article 11 Pro Forma Disclosure

61 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2024

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandates disclosure of Article 11 pro forma financial statements (pro formas) for acquisitions that exceed one of three bright-line materiality thresholds. Motivated by two theories of mandated disclosure, I investigate the conditions under which mandated pro forma disclosure improves forecast accuracy and mitigates incentive alignment problems. My findings indicate that pro formas reduce post-acquisition forecast errors when there is a weak pre-acquisition information environment. The reduction in forecast errors is larger when pro formas contain more income statement disaggregation and footnote disclosure. Using announcement returns, deal failure, and future profitability to measure acquisition quality, I find that pro formas mitigate an incentive alignment problem by increasing transparency. The forecasting and incentive alignment benefits concentrate in the same subsamples, suggesting that pro formas are more likely to mitigate an incentive alignment problem when they help to forecast future earnings.

Keywords: accuracy enhancement, acquisition, incentive alignment

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kubic, Matthew, The Benefits of Article 11 Pro Forma Disclosure (September 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4958148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4958148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
798
RANK
605,468
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies