Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Overconfidence Across the Firm Lifecycle: Effects on Accounting Outcomes and Stock Market Reactions

55 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024 Last revised: 6 Oct 2025

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Irem Demirkan

Loyola University Maryland

Birendra K. Mishra

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Tuba Toksoz

Koc University - College of Administrative Sciences and Economics

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

This study delves into the relationship between CEO overconfidence and a firm's performance across various stages of its life cycle. Previous research has illuminated how an overconfident CEO's personality can influence critical decisions related to investments, financial reporting, and overall corporate policies. The evolution of a firm happens by shifts in both internal factors, such as investment and managerial choices, and external factors like industry and economic developments. Existing literature suggests that the distinct stages of a firm's life cycle significantly impact decision-making processes and profitability. Our findings reveal that firms led by overconfident CEOs exhibit divergent performance outcomes and display abnormal returns that vary depending on the stage of the firm's life cycle. Notably, they tend to excel and achieve positive future performance (abnormal stock market returns) during the growth, mature and shake out (growth and mature) stages but experience worse accounting performance during the decline stage.

Keywords: CEO Overconfidence, Firm life cycle, Accounting Performance, Stock return

Suggested Citation:

Demirkan, Sebahattin and Demirkan, Irem and Mishra, Birendra K. and Toksoz, Tuba, CEO Overconfidence Across the Firm Lifecycle: Effects on Accounting Outcomes and Stock Market Reactions (September 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4960472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4960472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
S Andersen , G W Harrison , M I Lau , E E Rutström
Eliciting risk and time preferences
Econometrica , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 583 - 618 Posted: 2008
J Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
M Alicke
Global self-evaluation as determined by the desirability and controllability of trait adjectives
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 49 , p. 1621 - 1630 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
677,550
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies