Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of the Financial Performance of Jordanian-Listed Companies During and After the Covid-19 Pandemic

Posted: 19 Sep 2024

Nashat Almasria

A'SHARQIYAH UNIVERSITY

Nashat Almasria

A’Sharqiyah University

Date Written: February 03, 2024

Abstract

One of the main financial management issues in the world is determining factors that influence the return of the stock exchange, which has been the subject of numerous studies recently. Although this topic is one of the most explored in accounting and finance in recent years, there is still a scarcity of investigations on the developing markets-especially making a comparison during and after the pandemic. Therefore, the key objective of the current study is to shed light on the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic on the returns of the stock markets of the Jordan Stock Exchange sectors. Specifically, it examines the effect of COVID-19 on the WSEAS TRANSACTIONS on BUSINESS and ECONOMICS

Suggested Citation:

Almasria, Nashat and Almasria, Nashat, Comparative Analysis of the Financial Performance of Jordanian-Listed Companies During and After the Covid-19 Pandemic (February 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4960665
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies