Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insight of ISA 701: Key Audit Matter Disclosure in Extended Audit Report 

10 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2024

Sajead Mowafaq Alshdaifat

Putra Business School; Middle East University, Business School, Accounting and Finance Department, Students

Mohamad Ali Abdul Hamid

Universiti Putra Malaysia

Fauzi Saidin

University Putra Malaysia

NOOR HIDAYAH

University Putra Malaysia

Date Written: November 01, 2023

Abstract

This review aims to present a comprehensive review of ISA 701 and relevant research on the disclosure of Key Audit Matters (KAM) in extended audit reports. This article is organized into five main streams: (1) Identification of Key Audit Matters; (2) Communication of ISA 701 regarding KAM; (3) The Informative Value of KAM; (4) Types of disclosed KAM; and (5) Opportunities and challenges related to KAM disclosure. The paper highlights the importance of KAM, emphasizing its benefits in enhancing transparency, reducing information asymmetry, improving decision-making processes, increasing the value relevance of information, and reinforcing stakeholder accountability. Conversely, it acknowledges the weaknesses and challenges associated with inconsistent disclosure of KAM, which may jeopardize users' investment decisions and potentially threaten financial statement users. This situation could result in heightened audit time, costs, and potential legal liabilities to auditors. The study contributes to the existing literature by summarizing and analyzing prior research findings. It offers insights into how the disclosure of Key Audit Matters (KAM) can impact audit quality, financial reporting, and the decision-making process for various stakeholders.

Keywords: ISA 701, Key Audit Matter, Extended Audit Report, Informative Value, Challenges

Suggested Citation:

Alshdaifat, Sajead Mowafaq and Abdul Hamid, Mohamad Ali and Saidin, Fauzi and HIDAYAH, NOOR,
Insight of ISA 701: Key Audit Matter Disclosure in Extended Audit Report 
(November 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4961192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4961192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
M Abdullatif , A S Al-Rahahleh
Applying a new audit regulation: Reporting Key Audit Matters in Jordan
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 268 - 291 Posted: 2020
H Acca ; Al Lawati , K Hussainey
Enhanced auditors' report: A review of first-year implementation experience in Malaysia
Report. International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2018-12-28
M A Altawalbeh , M E Alhajaya
The Investors Reaction to the Disclosure of Key Audit Matters: Empirical Evidence from Jordan
International Business Research , volume 12 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
S K Asare , A M Wright
Inferring remediation and operational risk from material weakness disclosures
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
299,785
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies