Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Litigation and Corporate Default Risk

56 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024

Chaoran Yang

Cranfield University - School of Management

Wasim Ahmad

Cranfield University - School of Management

Nemanja Radic

Cranfield University - School of Management

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the effects of shareholder litigation on corporate default risk. Exploiting the staggered adoption of the universal demand (UD) laws by 23 U.S. states between 1989 and 2005 as an exogenous shock to derivative litigation, we find that weakened shareholder litigation rights due to the implementation of UD laws increase corporate default risk measured by expected default frequency (EDF). The positive relation between UD laws and EDF is more pronounced for financially constrained firms. Our results are robust to credit ratings as the alternative measure of default risk and different endogeneity tests including propensity score analysis and entropy balancing. The results also extend to the 1999 ruling of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on securities class action lawsuits. Further channel analyses show that the increase in corporate default risk following the passage of UD laws can be explained by the deterioration in corporate governance, the increase in firm performance volatility, the reduction in corporate strategy conformity, and the increase in the cost of capital. We find no evidence that the UD laws contribute to corporate risk-taking, suggesting that our results are driven by erratic and arbitrary decision-making rather than difficult decision-making, such as risky investments. Overall, our study highlights the importance of shareholder litigation rights as an external governance mechanism in mitigating firm-level default risk.

JEL Classification: G33, G38, K40

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Chaoran and Ahmad, Wasim and Radic, Nemanja, Shareholder Litigation and Corporate Default Risk (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4962500 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4962500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Searat Ali , Benjamin Liu , Jen Je Su
Does corporate governance quality affect default risk? The role of growth opportunities and stock liquidity
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 58 , p. 422 - 448 Posted: 2018
Ian Appel
Governance by Litigation
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2019
Matteo Arena , Brandon Julio
The Effects of Securities Class Action Litigation on Corporate Liquidity and Investment Policy
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2015
Matteo P Arena
Corporate litigation and debt
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 87 , p. 202 - 215 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
564,093
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies