Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Acquisition Activity

Accepted for publication in the Journal of Law and Economics

67 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024 Last revised: 25 Jul 2025

Anup Basnet

Western University

Magnus Blomkvist

EDHEC Business School

Karl Felixson

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Eva Liljeblom

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Hitesh Vyas

Audencia Business School

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

The Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 increased ex ante downgrade threats without changing credit rated firms’ underlying credit quality. We show that the Act had negative impacts on credit rated firms’ acquisition activities, especially among speculative grade firms as they face greater downgrade-induced costs. The more selective acquisition strategies led to higher announcement returns and greater post-acquisition upgrade probabilities. Consistent with firms refraining from taking on overall acquisition risk rather than financial risk, we show significant reductions in both cash and stock settled deal making following Dodd-Frank. In sum, our study highlights that increased legal stringency on CRAs has important spillover effects on firms’ M&A activities.

Keywords: Credit Ratings, Dodd-Frank Act, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Basnet, Anup and Blomkvist, Magnus and Felixson, Karl and Liljeblom, Eva and Vyas, Hitesh, The Impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Acquisition Activity (September 20, 2024). Accepted for publication in the Journal of Law and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4962939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4962939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Nihat Aktas , Dimitris Petmezas , Henri Servaes , Nikolaos Karampatsas
Credit Ratings and Acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 69 Posted: 2021
Hendrik Bessembinder , Kathleen M Kahle , William F Maxwell , Danielle Xu
Measuring Abnormal Bond Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 4219 - 4258 Posted: 2009
Karan Bhanot , Antonio S Mello
Should Corporate Debt Include a Rating Trigger?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 98 Posted: 2006
Matthew T Billett , Dolly Tao-Hsien , David C King , Mauer
Bondholder Wealth Effects in Mergers and Acquisitions: New Evidence from the 1980s and 1990s
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 135 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
RANK
478,373
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies