Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Loan Loss Provisions Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence From African, European, and Asian Countries

Ozili, P. K. (2024). Bank Loan Loss Provision Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence from African, European, and Asian Countries. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 17(3), 115.

23 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2024

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: March 05, 2024

Abstract

Loan loss provision is an important accounting number in the banking sector. This study investigates the determinants of loan loss provisions in non-crisis years in 28 countries from 2011 to 2018. The countries consist of African, European, and Asian countries. Using the generalized linear model regression and the quantile regression methodology, the results show that institutional quality is a significant determinant of bank loan loss provisions, indicating that the presence of strong institutions decrease the size of bank loan loss provisions. In the regional analyses, it was found that economic growth is a significant determinant of bank loan loss provisions in African and Asian countries. Loan loss provisions are higher in times of economic prosperity in African and Asian countries. This might be due to counter-cyclical provisioning which require African and Asian banks to keep higher loan loss provisions in good economic times so that the high provisions that was set aside in good times could be used as a safety buffer during times of economic downturns in African countries. Bank overhead cost is also a significant determinant of bank loan loss provisions only in Asian countries. 

Keywords: loan loss provisions, financial reporting, banks, accrual, earnings management, income smoothing, africa, asia, europe, determinants

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Loan Loss Provisions Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence From African, European, and Asian Countries (March 05, 2024). Ozili, P. K. (2024). Bank Loan Loss Provision Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence from African, European, and Asian Countries. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 17(3), 115., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4963825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4963825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S Basu , J Vitanza , W Wang
Asymmetric loan loss provision models
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
S Biswas , S N Bhattacharya , J Y Jin , M Bhattacharya , P H Sadarangani
Loan loss provisions and income smoothing in banks: the role of trade openness and IFRS in BRICS
China Accounting and Finance Review Posted: 2024
R M Bushman , C D Williams
Accounting discretion, loan loss provisioning, and discipline of banks' risk-taking
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2012
A M Conti , A Nobili , F M Signoretti
Bank capital requirement shocks: A narrative perspective
European Economic Review , volume 151 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies