Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Video-Based Deception Detection and Financial Fraud

54 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024 Last revised: 5 Feb 2025

Binglei Duan

Central University of Finance and Economics

Danqi Hu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Hai Lu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: September 15, 2024

Abstract

Using a comprehensive visual deception score estimated with computer vision and machine learning algorithms, we find that visual deception cues revealed from mandatorily disclosed IPO roadshow videos in China predict IPO financial fraud. The predictive power of visual cues is incremental to financial, textual, and audio fraud indicators. Analyses on these deception cues show that they are well grounded in prior psychology research. Furthermore, decomposing the entire video into five topics, we show that only the deception score of the topic on financial performance predicts fraud. We further show that insiders from the firms with higher visual deception scores are more likely to sell stocks quickly following the expiration of lockup periods and the subsequent stock returns of these firms are significantly lower. Our study highlights the potential benefits of mandatory video disclosure to investors and regulators.

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Binglei and Hu, Danqi and Lu, Hai, Video-Based Deception Detection and Financial Fraud (September 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4964419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4964419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
M Abouelenien , V Pérez-Rosas , R Mihalcea , M Burzo
Deception detection using a multimodal approach
Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Multimodal Interaction , p. 58 - 65 Posted: 2014
J Aharony , C W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
A Akansu , J Cicon , S P Ferris , Y Sun
Firm performance in the face of fear: how CEO moods affect firm performance
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 373 - 389 Posted: 2017
K D Allee , B Baik , Y Roh
Detecting financial misreporting with real production activity: evidence from an electricity consumption analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1581 - 1615 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,068
RANK
328,615
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies