Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit as An Instrument Of Financial Control In Borno State Ministry Of Finance

19 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024

Jibril Ali Zangina

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Umar Makama

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Mohammed Ali Abadam

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Date Written: June 01, 2015

Abstract

The paper assesses the role played by internal audit as an instrument of financial control in the Borno State Ministry of Finance. This paper utilized both primary and secondary modes of data collection. The survey design method was used to collect primary data using a closed-ended (structured) questionnaire. The study employed both descriptive and inferential statistics in form of simple percentages and chi-square respectively. The result showed that there is a significant relationship between internal audit, financial control and the Borno State Ministry of Finance. Internal audits are conducted by an entity’s own personnel to uncover bookkeeping errors and also to check the honesty of employees. In large companies, internal auditing is an ongoing procedure. Internal auditing helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. An internal auditor is a person or an auditor within an organization who reviews the system of internal control and the quality of performance of such an organization. He examines, evaluates and reports on the adequacy or inadequacy, transparency or lack-of-transparency and authenticity or inauthenticity of financial transactions as a service to the management of the organization to ensure financial discipline and as well as the development of such an organization. Financial control refers to facts that show whether or not the business has the right to control the economic aspects of the worker’s job. 

Ethics Approval

An approval for the conduct of research on Borno State Ministry of Finance was granted.

Suggested Citation:

Zangina, Jibril Ali and Makama, Umar and Abadam, Mohammed Ali, Internal Audit as An Instrument Of Financial Control In Borno State Ministry Of Finance (June 01, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965914 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M A Abadam , J A Zangina , B M Abatcha
The effect of Internal Audit on Organizations' Objectives: A study of Unilever Nigeria Limited, Maiduguri Zonal Center
Proceedings of international conference on social sciences and humanities , volume 6 , p. 148 - 154 Posted: 2014
R A Adams
Public Sector Accounting and finances Posted: 2004
Al Sawalqa , F Qtish , A
Internal Control and Audit Program Effectiveness: Empirical Evidence from Jordan
International Business Research , volume 5 , issue 9 Posted: 2012
R J Anderson
The external Audits: concept and techniques Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
251
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies