Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging Receivables: Effect of Accounts Receivable Management on Leverage in the Healthcare Sector

20 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2024

Samuel Yeboah

Nord University

Abstract

The healthcare sector is confronted with unique receivables management dynamics because of the complexities healthcare providers deal with, including private insurance, government programs, self-paying patients, and the sector’s capital-intensive nature. These complexities impact their reliance on external financing. The study assesses the effect of accounts receivable days (ARD) on leverage with evidence from the US healthcare sector. The empirical analysis uses data from 2018 to 2022 with the system GMM regression method. The results indicate that a day delay in ARD increases leverage by 2.20%. It is even more pronounced in the medical equipment industry, with a 5.10% increase in leverage. The results further reveal that while the sector witnessed a decrease in leverage with extended ARD, the medical equipment industry observed a reduction during the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings suggest that extended accounts receivable periods tie up working capital in unpaid invoices, delay cash inflows, and create liquidity challenges. This compels companies to borrow more to cover short-term needs, especially in industries like medical equipment, where high upfront costs make timely receivables crucial for cash flow. The results highlight the need to consider industry-specific factors when analyzing the impact of ARD on external financing decisions.

Keywords: accounts receivable days, working capital management, leverage, healthcare, COVID-19 pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Yeboah, Samuel, Leveraging Receivables: Effect of Accounts Receivable Management on Leverage in the Healthcare Sector. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
, p. 85 - 106
K Amponsah-Kwatiah , M Asiamah
Working capital management and profitability of listed manufacturing firms in Ghana
International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management , volume 70 , issue 7 , p. 1751 - 1771 Posted: 2020
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of error-components models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
H K Baker , S Kumar , S Colombage , H P Singh
Working capital management practices in India: survey evidence
Managerial Finance , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 331 - 353 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
230,777
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies