Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Emergence Of Electronic Accounting And Cashless Society In Maiduguri, Nigeria

25 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024

Jibril Ali Zangina

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Babagana Abatcha

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Mohammed Ali Abadam

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Date Written: July 17, 2014

Abstract

The cashless society that the Nigerian state dream of is under threat and may subsequently be flushed down the waterways as usual if the culture of electronic accounting is not embraced by the Accountancy profession community both in the academia and practice. The CBN governor emphasizes the need for a cashless society in 2013(on the already established e-payment, e-Banking, e-deposit, e-commerce etc.) that will transform the traditional manual processes of data collection, data recording, data analysis and data presentations and interpretationsfor the better. Electronic accounting is defined as an accounting, wheretransactions, accounting entries and data is received, transferred and stored electronically. Nowadays, data can be transferred, exchanged, shared, analyzed and interpreted electronically between business entities locally, nationally or internationally within mille-seconds which lead to the alarming decrease for manually collected data and printed document in black and white. Whatdo the accounting professionals and tutors think of the looming adversity of electronic accounting and auditing that is on the horizon that may subsequently lead to a new era of paperless accounting records. The automation may warrant a more reliable accounting and auditing practice in Nigeria .This paper offers eight theses on the adversity and diversity of electronic accounting and auditing in the Nigerian state, and concludes that a national reconstruction of the Accountancy profession and the application of e-accounting and e-auditing in the curriculum of Professional Education and Training Institutions hold the key to the puzzle of the looming cashless society that the Nigerian State implemented in 2013 in some states which is about to be adopted in Maiduguri in 2014.

Keywords: Emergence, Electronic Accounting, Cashless and Society

Ethics Approval

Approval was granted for this research by the polytechnic.

Suggested Citation:

Zangina, Jibril Ali and Abatcha, Babagana and Abadam, Mohammed Ali, The Emergence Of Electronic Accounting And Cashless Society In Maiduguri, Nigeria (July 17, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Abadam , J Zangina , B M Abatcha
The effects of internal audit on organizational objectives: A case study of Uniliver Nigeria Limited, Maiduguri Zonal Center
Eleventh International Conference on Sustainable Development Posted: 2014
H Robert , Gregory , L Richard , Van Horn
Business Data Processing and Programming
Dwyer Eamon
The personal computer in the small business efficient office practice
International Auditing Guideline No 15 Auditing in an EDP Environment , volume 15 Posted: 1984
Ahmed O Sule , B O N Publications Osisioma , B
Remote Access Computing -Threats, Vulnerabilities and Controls. The Nigerian Accountant , volume 34 Posted: 2001-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
224
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies