Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Private Meetings with Management in Reducing Investor Uncertainty Around Subsequent Earnings Announcements

41 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2024

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Xinlei Li

University of California, Davis

Hui Wang

Renmin University of China, School of Business

Date Written: September 23, 2024

Abstract

Scholars and regulators posit that investors leverage previously obtained private information when responding to firms' subsequent public disclosures. We empirically test this hypothesis by examining the occurrence of private meetings with management preceding earnings announcements. Specifically, we focus on firms that issue stand-alone management guidance alongside private meetings, compared to a matched sample of firms that also issue stand-alone guidance but do not hold such meetings. Our findings indicate an incremental 10 percent reduction in investor uncertainty surrounding the subsequent earnings announcements of firms with private meetings relative to those without. This reduction is more pronounced for firms with more soft information, suggesting that investors derive valuable insights from these meetings. We conclude that the soft information gathered during private meetings aids investors in interpreting subsequent earnings announcements with implications for resolving investor uncertainty.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Investor conference, Earnings guidance, Investor uncertainty, Earnings announcement

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Tseng, Ayung and Schloetzer, Jason D. and Li, Xinlei and Wang, Hui, The Role of Private Meetings with Management in Reducing Investor Uncertainty Around Subsequent Earnings Announcements (September 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
K D Allee , B J Bushee , T J Kleppe , A T Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems Case limit the SEC's ability to enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1235 - 1291 Posted: 2022
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
595
RANK
453,964
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies