Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Auditors and Within-relationship Information-Processing Costs: Evidence from Supply Chain Relationships

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

52 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024

Bo Ren

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Nina Xu

University of Connecticut

Young Hoon Kim

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

A supply chain relationship is often maintained through incomplete contracts, in which accounting information facilitates communication and negotiation. This study investigates whether external auditors serving both suppliers and customers (i.e., common auditors) can help strengthen supply chain relationships by reducing within-relationship information-processing costs. Using pair-level sales to measure the strength of supply chain relationships, we find that common auditors are associated with stronger supply chain relationships. Consistent with our proposed information-processing cost channel, we find a stronger association for suppliers with weaker information environments and lower financial statement readability, and for supply chain partners sharing auditors from the same office and with longer auditor-sharing tenure. Our results are robust to using the failure of Arthur Andersen as an exogenous shock to auditor sharing and using alternative measures of supply chain relationships. Overall, our results suggest that common auditors help to reduce within-relationship information-processing costs and strengthen supply chain relationships.

Keywords: common auditor, supply chain, incomplete contract, information-processing costs

Suggested Citation:

Ren, Bo and Xu, Nina and Kim, Young Hoon, Common Auditors and Within-relationship Information-Processing Costs: Evidence from Supply Chain Relationships (September 01, 2024). Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Qualitative uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
J Alcacer , J Oxley ; Anand , S K , M Goyal
Strategic information management under leakage in the supply chain
Strategic Management Journal , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 438 - 452 Posted: 2009
M Anton , C Polk
Connected stocks
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 1099 - 1127 Posted: 2014
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: Evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
411,549
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies