Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Financial Reporting Frequency and Market Efficiency: Evidence From Malaysia

International Journal of Corporate Governance | January 2020

Posted: 6 Nov 2024

Bee Wah Ooi

University of Auckland; Asia Pacific University of Technology and Innovation, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

David G. Mayes

University of Auckland

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Philip B. Shane

College of William & Mary - Raymond A. Mason School of Business

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

Effective corporate governance and protection of shareholder's rights necessitate timely disclosure of value-relevant information about the operations and financial position of firms with publicly-traded securities. This study examines whether regulations increasing the frequency of firms' periodic financial reports improves the information environment and accelerates price discovery in capital markets. Using a difference-indifferences research design, the study produces results showing post-regulation improvement in stock market efficiency. The findings contribute to the body of literature concerned with corporate governance, financial disclosure, and regulation of the flow of information from firms to investors and other stakeholders. The results have implications for policy makers in other emerging countries debating the pros and cons of quarterly financial reporting by firms raising capital in public markets.

Keywords: Legal reform, Reporting frequency, Difference-in-differences, Market efficiency, Transparency, Information content and timeliness, Malaysia

JEL Classification: G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Bee Wah and Mayes, David G. and Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Shane, Philip B., Mandatory Financial Reporting Frequency and Market Efficiency: Evidence From Malaysia (January 01, 2020). International Journal of Corporate Governance | January 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4966559
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies