Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control and Firms’ Financial Performance in Nigeria: A Study of Selected Manufacturing Firms

9 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2024

Olurotimi Ogunwale

Babcock University; Westbury Transnational Capital Limited

Areghan Akhanolu Isibor

Covenant University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: September 23, 2024

Abstract

This study was carried out for the purpose of understanding the impact of internal control on firm performance. This research wanted to prove that internal control played an important role on the performance of ten selected manufacturing firm in Nigeria. Internal control factors like board size, audit committee size, and board independence were investigated to see how they impact performance. Secondary data gotten from the ten manufacturing firms' financial statement were analyzed using the panel data regression analysis. Although the fixed effect and the random effect regression were carried out, the Hausman test pointed to the fixed effect regression as significant, hence it was focused on. Findings from the fixed effect revealed that board size, audit committee size, and board independence were all significant in impacting firm performance measured by equity returns. The study therefore recommended among others that the Board of directors should be more diverse in the composition of board members as this would boost their independence.

Keywords: Bank Performance, Board Size, Internal Control, Return on Equity, Panel Data Regression, Fixed Effect, Hausman Test

Suggested Citation:

Ogunwale, Olurotimi and Isibor, Areghan Akhanolu, Internal Control and Firms’ Financial Performance in Nigeria: A Study of Selected Manufacturing Firms (September 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4966122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4966122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Olurotimi Ogunwale , Areghan Akhanolu Isibor , Y.S.A Alalade, , Tolulope Omosebi
Use Of Technology And Financial Literacy On Sme Practices And Performance
10 Pages · Posted: 14 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
922
RANK
344,140
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies