Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance and 'risk and opportunity’ disclosures and firms’ value of quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria: An integrated reporting outlook

14 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Vincent Ifeanyi Bosah

Adeleke University, Ede

Alice Shiyanbola

Adeleke University, Ede

Ebunoluwa Adeoye

Adeleke University, Ede

Oluwaseun Emmanuel Bankole

Adeleke University, Ede

Rebecca Adesanya

Adeleke University

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

The study investigated the effect of governance and ‘risks and opportunities ’disclosures on firms’ value of quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria. Secondary data were obtained from the audited published annual reports covering 2014 to 2022. The study purposively selected 14 from a population of 21 quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria. The investigation utilised ex-post facto research design. Descriptive statistics and inferential statistics were conducted to validate the findings. The analysis showed that governance disclosure positively and significantly impacts the value of quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria. This indicates that strong governance practices, such as board appointments, committee formation, social responsibility, and stakeholder integration, significantly enhance firm value. Additionally, the study found that while disclosure of risks and opportunities has a positive effect, it is not significant, suggesting that current risk management and opportunity strategies have not notably impacted the firms' value. The study recommends that Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria(FRCN) should harmonise all the corporate governance regulations in Nigeria in line with the provisions of governance disclosure in integrated reporting framework among quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria.

Keywords: Earnings per share, Firm Value, Governance, Risk and opportunities, Stakeholder

Suggested Citation:

Bosah, Vincent Ifeanyi and Shiyanbola, Alice and Adeoye, Ebunoluwa and Bankole, Oluwaseun Emmanuel and Adesanya, Rebecca, Governance and 'risk and opportunity’ disclosures and firms’ value of quoted consumer goods companies in Nigeria: An integrated reporting outlook (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4967177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4967177
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B S Abdulrahman , O E Ajayi
The effect of integrated reporting disclosure and firms value of listed insurance company in Nigeria
Fuoye Journal of Accounting and Management , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 100 Posted: 2022
Akintoye Adegbie , F F Rufus , I Isiaka , B
Evaluation of integrated reporting and the value of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 2019
A E Adegboyegun , M E Alade , E Ben-Caleb , A O Ademola , D F Eluyela , O A Oladipo
Integrated reporting and corporate performance in Nigeria: Evidence from the banking industry
Cogent Business & Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2020
D C Akpan , J C Udeme Joe Charles , G R Aniefiok
Effect of integrated reporting on firm's value: The Nigeria manufacturing sector experience
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 10 - 26 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies