Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB inspection deficiencies and future financial reporting quality: Do the types of deficiencies matter? *

51 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2024

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Patience Constance

University of West Florida

Date Written: September 14, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) inspection reports are useful for signaling the risk of misstatements in future periods, and the extent to which different types of audit deficiencies predict future misstatements. We find that, after the inspection report is issued, PCAOB-identified audit deficiencies are positively associated with future misstatements for the audit firm’s entire client portfolio. When we examine different types of deficiencies, we find that an auditor’s failure to understand the client’s accounting procedures or policies is the most detrimental type of deficiency for future reporting quality. We also examine the deficiency types for Big 4 versus non-Big 4 firms separately. The results show that an auditor’s failure to understand the client’s accounting procedures or policies is the only deficiency type that is positively associated with future misstatements for Big 4 firms but, for non-Big 4 firms, future misstatements are predicted by an auditor’s failure to understand the client’s accounting procedures or policies, inadequate substantive testing, and inadequate going-concern assessments. Our study has important implications given the concerns raised by auditors regarding the usefulness of PCAOB inspections.

Keywords: PCAOB, Misstatements

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Li, Chan and Constance, Patience, PCAOB inspection deficiencies and future financial reporting quality: Do the types of deficiencies matter? * (September 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4968006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4968006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
L Abbott , K Gunny , T Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from Stakeholder Reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
E Ameen , J Strawser
Investigating the use of analytical procedures: An update and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 69 - 76 Posted: 1994
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processpreliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
350,629
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies