Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Credit Rating Inflation Influence Loan Contract Design?

50 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2024

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Matias Sokolowski

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: September 26, 2024

Abstract

The issuer-pay model of major credit rating agencies has long been criticized for its potential to create conflicts of interest and inflated ratings. We provide evidence that rating inflation affects the design of private loan contracts. We find that lenders are less likely to grant performance-sensitive debt indexed to credit ratings (rating-based PSD) when issuer-paid ratings are inflated. Furthermore, difference-in-differences analysis indicates that rating-based PSD is more likely after an exogenous shock that decreases the inflation of issuer-paid ratings. In response to rating inflation, the lender increases monitoring efforts by relying on performance covenants. Consistent with increased monitoring and renegotiation costs, interest spreads are higher for borrowers with inflated ratings. We further document an effect on other important contract terms. Our evidence is consistent with lenders adjusting different contract terms to compensate for monitoring deficiencies associated with inflated credit ratings.

Keywords: debt contracts, credit rating inflation, issuer-pay model, performance-sensitive debt, performance-pricing provisions, financial covenants

JEL Classification: G21, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Edward and Demerjian, Peter R. and Sokolowski, Matias and Zhou, Ling, Does Credit Rating Inflation Influence Loan Contract Design? (September 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4968844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4968844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
T R Adam , D Streitz
Hold-up and the use of performance-sensitive debt
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 26 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2016
T Adam , V Burg , T Scheinert , D Streitz
Managerial biases and debt contract design: the case of syndicated loans
Management Science , volume 66 , p. 352 - 375 Posted: 2020
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
D C Badoer , C Demiroglu , C James
Ratings quality and borrowing choice
The Journal of Finance , volume 74 , p. 2619 - 2665 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
511,510
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies