Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Pay Dispersions and Audit Fees

35 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2024

Zi Lin

Renmin University of China

Chang Song

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Xiaoyu Hu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper finds that companies with higher pay dispersions tend to have higher audit fees using a sample of A-share listed companies in China from 2008 to 2019. The findings remaine consistent after conducting robustness tests using PSM and IV methods. Also, mechanism testing confirms that excessive incentives and social norm issues led to this. In further tests, we find that higher salary disparities corporations may choose higher-quality accounting firms to improve their information disclosure quality. And the result is more significant in SOEs in China. This paper provides new empirical evidence from auditors on the study of pay dispersions.

Keywords: pay dispersions, audit fees, excessive incentives, social norm

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Zi and Song, Chang and Hu, Xiaoyu, The Relationship between Pay Dispersions and Audit Fees. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4969486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4969486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies