Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insights from Auditors' Disclosures of How They Addressed Critical Audit Matters

57 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2024

Zhuoli Axelton

University of Wisconsin - Green Bay

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Brandon Szerwo

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Date Written: June 30, 2024

Abstract

We examine the extent and usefulness of disclosures of audit procedures performed in response to critical audit matters (CAMs) revealed in expanded audit reports. While early archival research shows little evidence that CAM and similar disclosures in expanded audit reports convey novel risk information, we report that the extensiveness of disclosed audit procedures performed over CAMs 1) increases with the risk of material misstatement, 2) aligns with other measures of audit thoroughness, and 3) positively associates with audit quality. Moreover, on average, the extensiveness of the disclosed audit procedures increases the value relevance of financial summary measures such as earnings and net assets. Thus, disclosures of audit procedures performed over CAMs in expanded audit reports provide meaningful information on financial reporting credibility that appears to be used by investors.

Keywords: textual analysis, critical audit matters, expanded audit reports, audit procedures, audit quality, financial reporting credibility, value relevance

Funder Statement

We appreciate the financial support provided by the Cofrin School of Business at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay, the Carson College of Business at Washington State University, and the University at Buffalo School of Management.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Axelton, Zhuoli and Gramlich, Jeffrey and Szerwo, Brandon, Insights from Auditors' Disclosures of How They Addressed Critical Audit Matters (June 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4969676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4969676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J L Abernathy , A R Finley , E T Rapley , J Stekelberg
External auditor responses to tax risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance Posted: 2019
A Albrecht , K Kim , K Lee
Changes in Accounting Estimates: Are the current disclosure requirements sufficient to deter managerial opportunism?
, p. 2017 - 2022 Posted: 2017
Financial restatements, a twenty-one-year review
R Beatty
Auditor reputation and the pricing of initial public offerings
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 709 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
836
RANK
434,412
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies