Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Internal Audit: Embracing Innovation and Disruption

6 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2024

Godstime Nwaeze

Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 30, 2024

Abstract

The hallmark of internal audit function is value addition by providing assurance to organization's management that its operations are being conducted efficiently, effectively, and in compliance with relevant legal frameworks. Interestingly, innovations are creating different situations requiring new skills, and as these disruptions continue to happen, internal audit function will be threatened by "where were the internal auditors?" moments. Through extensive literature review and content analysis, this article finds that stakeholders' perception of the profession is at the risk of decline due to heavy reliance on assurance to the exclusion of insight and foresight. As a way forward, internal audit function must leverage technology to assure, advise and anticipate risks, assist businesses in understanding risks, and in crafting preventive responses. In addition, internal auditing must branch off to environmental, social and governance (ESG), as the latter has become the bedrock of responsible/impact investing.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Innovation and Disruption, Risk Management, Assurance

Declaration of Interest

There is no financial relationship which influenced this study.

Ethics Approval

Neither applies.

Funder Statement

It was not funded by any party.

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42, M48, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Nwaeze, Godstime, The Future of Internal Audit: Embracing Innovation and Disruption (May 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4969790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4969790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
938
RANK
379,149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies