Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De-Politicization and Corporate Risk-Taking

43 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2024

Yinghui Chen

Beijing Normal University - Zhuhai Campus

Ting Ren

Peking University HSBC Business School

Youzhi Xiao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

We examine the impact of China’s de-politicization regulation Rule 18 on corporate risk-taking. This rule mandates government officials to step down from their positions on the boards of public firms, thereby severing the political ties through official directors. Employing a staggered difference-in-differences design, our study reveals that the collapse of political connections results in a significant decrease in the level of risk-taking among politically connected firms. Furthermore, we identify bank credit and direct government support as plausible channels through which these effects manifest and highlight the presence of heterogeneous effects across different contextual factors.

Keywords: Anti-Corruption Campaign, political connections, Risk-Taking

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yinghui and Ren, Ting and Xiao, Youzhi and Yue, Heng, De-Politicization and Corporate Risk-Taking. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4970785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4970785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies