Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnover, Sequential Disclosure and Stock Returns

56 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2024 Last revised: 10 Feb 2025

Jiayin Hu

Peking University - National School of Development (NSD); Peking University - Institute of Digital Finance; Peking University - China Center for Economic Research (CCER)

Laura Xiaolei Liu

Guanghua School of Management, Peking University

Chloe Yue Liu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Hao Qu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Yingguang Zhang

Peking University - Department of Finance, Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: September 28, 2024

Abstract

We document that firms experience large negative stock returns during, and positive returns following, the first informational events after forced CEO turnovers. This V-shaped return pattern is driven by the strategic sequential disclosure of bad news and good news, aligned with incoming CEOs' incentives to manage expectations. The pattern is more pronounced when these incentives are stronger, such as when firms earn higher stock returns and have higher valuation uncertainty leading up to the informational events. Evidence from firms' earnings surprises, analysts' forecast revisions, and large language model-based measures of disclosure behavior indicates that incoming CEOs often initially release bad news about realized and short-term earnings, projecting a broadly pessimistic outlook for the firm's future performance, and subsequently disclose favorable news about longer-term earnings prospects. Our findings suggest that investors make the costly mistake of failing to discern the incentives behind managers' disclosure.

Keywords: CEO turnover, stock returns, expectation management

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jiayin and Liu, Laura Xiaolei and Liu, Chloe Yue and Qu, Hao and Zhang, Yingguang, CEO Turnover, Sequential Disclosure and Stock Returns (September 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Bipin B Ajinkya , Michael J Gift
Dispersion of Financial Analysts' Earnings Forecasts and the (Option Model) Implied Standard Deviations of Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 1353 - 1365 Posted: 1985
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Evan W Anderson , Eric Ghysels , Jennifer L Juergens
Do Heterogeneous Beliefs Matter for Asset Pricing?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 875 - 924 Posted: 2005
Asquith , Parag A Paul , Jay R Pathak , Ritter
Short Interest, Institutional Ownership, and Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,970
RANK
118,885
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies