Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Cooperation Among Securities Regulators and Managerial Learning from Stock Prices

52 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024

Xiaoqi Chen

Xiamen University

Fangfang Hou

Xiamen University

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Janus Jian Zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: September 03, 2024

Abstract

The Multilateral Memorandum Of Understanding Concerning Consultation And Cooperation And The Exchange Of Information (Mmou) Enhances Cross-Border Cooperation Between Securities Regulators To Facilitate The Enforcement Of Securities Laws. We Use The Mmou’s Staggered Adoption By Countries To Study The Effect Of Enhanced Regulatory Cooperation On Managerial Learning From Stock Prices. We Find That Such Learning Increases After The Firm’s Home Country Enters Into The Mmou. This Finding Is Consistent With The View That Enhanced Regulatory Cooperation Can Help Improve Stock Price Informativeness, Which In Turn Has The Real Effect Of Enhancing Managerial Learning From Stock Prices. We Also Find That The Mmou's Positive Effect On Investment-Q Sensitivity Is Stronger For Firms In Countries Where Its Adoption Has Fostered Regulatory Cooperation More Effectively And For Firms With Higher Business Uncertainty. The Study Offers The Novel Insight That Cross-Border Cooperation Between Securities Regulators Has Positive Externalities For Corporate Investments.

Keywords: securities regulation, regulatory cooperation, managerial learning from stock prices, investment-q sensitivity

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaoqi and Hou, Fangfang and Ng, Jeffrey and Zhang, Janus Jian, Regulatory Cooperation Among Securities Regulators and Managerial Learning from Stock Prices (September 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
F Allen
Stock markets and resource allocation. Capital Markets and Financial Intermediation , volume 81 , p. 81 - 108 Posted: 1993
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
565
RANK
622,944
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies