Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Individual Analysts’ Responses to Management Forecasts Conditioned by Managers’ Forecasting Track Records?

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2024

Tejshree Kala

Australian National University (ANU)

Mark David Wilson

Australian National University

Greg Shailer

ANU College of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 28, 2024

Abstract

We examine the extent to which analysts’ responses to management forecasts are influenced by the forecasting track records of the managers issuing the forecast, distinct from the track records of their firms. We find that analysts’ forecast revisions in response to management forecast news, measured at the analyst level, are positively conditioned by the manager’s track record for accuracy and firm’s track records for accuracy and consistency. We also find that analyst sensitivity to the conditioning effect of managers’ track records for accuracy increases with analyst experience. Additional analyses reveal that the nature of analyst responses to management forecasts, in terms of agreement or disagreement, are also influenced by manager and firm track records. Further, we find that the market tends to follow analysts’ leads in responding to management forecasts, consistent with analysts being a channel through which the market is informed of the conditioning effect of managers’ track records for accuracy.

Keywords: earnings guidance, management forecasts, management credibility, analysts, analyst ability

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kala, Tejshree and Wilson, Mark D. and Shailer, Greg,
Are Individual Analysts’ Responses to Management Forecasts Conditioned by Managers’ Forecasting Track Records?
(September 28, 2024). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4972895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4972895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , B B Ajinkya
Returns to informational advantages: The case of analysts' forecast revisions
The Accounting Review , p. 661 - 680 Posted: 1982
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies