Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The German Business Panel: Firm-Level Data for Accounting and Taxation Research 

European Accounting Review,  (forthcoming) [10.1080/09638180.2024.2403467]

49 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2024

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Davud Rostam‐Afschar

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Global Labor Organization; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

The German Business Panel (GBP) periodically surveys key decision-makers via a large sample of companies in Germany. The survey questions investigate managers' accounting and taxation choices as well as the expected and perceived outcomes of those decisions. To obtain causal evidence, the survey supports the use of randomized survey experiments. The evidence from the GBP can meaningfully advance our understanding of issues that require data on internal processes as well as expectations, perceptions, and objectives behind ex-post reported accounting figures. The target population comprises the universe of legal entities included in the official German Statistical Business Register. We show that the dominance of small and medium-sized entities is a feature that Germany shares with many European countries, implying that GBP findings will be reasonably generalizable to European settings. We illustrate the usefulness of GBP data by presenting evidence from the initial waves of the GBP during the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings show how government aid programs contributed unevenly to the solvency of the most negatively affected companies, and how companies, rather than consumers, benefited from a temporary reduction of VAT rates. The paper also demonstrates how the scientific community can use the GBP data.

Keywords: Firm survey data, German Business Panel, Survey design, Tax Expectations, VAT, Covid-19

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval was given by the University of Mannheim's Ethics Committee.

Funder Statement

All authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the German Research Foundation (DFG) for the project ‘Accounting for Transparency’ (Grant No.: SFB/TRR 403041268).

JEL Classification: C81, D22, D25, D80, H00, H12, H32, H20, H25, M40, R38

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Dörrenberg, Philipp and Rostam-Afschar, Davud and Simons, Dirk and Voget, Johannes, The German Business Panel: Firm-Level Data for Accounting and Taxation Research  (August 22, 2024). European Accounting Review,  (forthcoming) [10.1080/09638180.2024.2403467], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4974290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
G Alekseev , S Amer , M Gopal , T Kuchler , J W Schneider , J Stroebel , N Wernerfelt
The Effects of COVID-19 on U.S. Small Businesses: Evidence from Owners, Managers, and Employees , volume 69 , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 2023
P Angelini , A Generale
On the evolution of firm size distributions
American Economic Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 426 - 438 Posted: 2008
L Arnemann , F Eble , J Bischof , P Dörrenberg , D Rostam-Afschar , D Simons , J Voget
A Guide on How Survey Weights of the GBP are Used (and Constructed)
GBP Posted: 2022
R Ball
Accounting Informs Investors and Earnings Management is Rife: Two Questionable Beliefs. Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
557
RANK
68,309
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies