Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Transformation in Financial Services: API Economy and Agile Manifestation

25 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 03, 2024

Abstract

This paper looks at the API economy (Open application programming interface), which has and will further transform the financial service industry. API are most known within digital payments as an open technical standard to exchange payment data, as regulators forced all companies within the financial service industry to set-up a technical open interface via API. Following the introduction of the Open Banking Working Group (OBWG) and Second Payments Services Directive (PSD2) regulatory frameworks aiming at reducing market barriers for new payment solution providers and overall increasing efficiency for consumers by reducing transaction costs, the new API technology and the associated mandatory rules have led to many new market participants. APIs act as the glue between different software applications, allowing them to share data and functionality. The API economy is a concept built around the idea that businesses can leverage API to generate revenue and innovate. APIs play a crucial role in various industries, particularly in finance, where they facilitate digital transformation and open banking initiatives. Research has explored the fundamental properties of APIs and their applications, highlighting their impact on financial services' digital evolution. Open banking, driven by APIs, has revolutionized the financial sector, fostering competition, innovation, and collaboration among stakeholders. However, this transformation has come in parallel with the agile manifestation and rapide software delivery, which poses challenges, including concerns about data security and privacy.

Keywords: API, API economy, FinTech, Financial Service Industry, Open Banking, Digital Strategy, Agile Transformation, Agile Manifesto

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Digital Transformation in Financial Services: API Economy and Agile Manifestation (October 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4975465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4975465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J Aurik , M Fabel , G Jonk
A leader's guide to an organization-wide strategy journey
Strategy & Leadership , volume 43 , p. 15 - 24 Posted: 2015
V Beauchene , M Cunningham
The end of management as we know it. Boston Consulting Group. Available at www. bcg. com/publications/2020/end-management-as-we-know-it , volume 23 , p. 2 - 21 Posted: 2020
D Beerbaum
RegSafe© manifesto-an agile management control methodology for regulatory-driven programs
Journal of Applied Research in the Digital Economy , volume 6 Posted: 2021
J Justice
Agile at Tesla with Joe Justice Agile Munich Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Dorai Surendar Chittoor
Cloud Computing and API Integration in Banking: A Transformative Framework for Digital Innovation and Operational Excellence
International Journal of Scientific Research in Computer Science, Engineering and Information Technology , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 167 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
432,018
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies