Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Between Tradition and Pretense? Deciphering the Confucian Clan in Corporate Greenwashing Practices

66 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024

Dongyang Zhang

Capital University of Economics and Business

Xingyu Chen

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Yizhi Wang

Cardiff University

Samuel A. Vigne

Luiss Guido Carli University - Luiss Business School

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 09, 2024

Abstract

Corporate greenwashing, where firms mislead stakeholders about their environmental practices, is a significant issue in China, where rapid industrialization and environmental degradation have heightened the need for genuine corporate responsibility. This study examines how the historical presence of Confucian clans-rooted in traditional values of integrity, responsibility, and communal welfare-affects the propensity of firms to engage in greenwashing. Using a dataset of 1,346 Chinese firms from 2011 to 2021, we employ cross-sectional regression analysis with genealogy density as a proxy for the strength of Confucian clan heritage. Greenwashing is measured through discrepancies between symbolic and actual ESG performance data. The analysis is robust, incorporating firm-specific, industry-specific, and regional controls. Our findings reveal a significant inverse relationship between Confucian clan presence and corporate greenwashing, suggesting that traditional values serve as a deterrent to deceptive practices. This study underscores the significance of cultural heritage in promoting ethical corporate behavior, offering new perspectives on the role of traditional values in modern business practices.

Keywords: Confucian Clans, Corporate Greenwashing, Cultural Heritage, Environmental Ethics

Declaration of Interest

No conflicts of interest to declare.

Funder Statement

This paper acknowledges the financial support of the National Key R&amp;D Program of China (2023YFA1009204), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (72103147), and the Project of Cultivation for Young Top-motch Talents of Beijing Municipal Institutions (BPHR202203184).

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Dongyang and Chen, Xingyu and Wang, Yizhi and Vigne, Samuel A. and Kong, Dongmin, Between Tradition and Pretense? Deciphering the Confucian Clan in Corporate Greenwashing Practices (September 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4977959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4977959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Ai-Li , S C Freedman , M
Family and kinship in Chinese society , volume 1 Posted: 1970
S Y Akomea , M Adusei
Bank recapitalization and market concentration in ghana's banking industry: A herfindahl-hirschman index analysis
Global Journal of Business Research , volume 7 , p. 31 - 45 Posted: 2013
S Beder , Beder
Global spin: The corporate assault on environmentalism , volume 2 Posted: 2002
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , P R Rau
What doesn't kill you will only make you more risk-loving: Early-life disasters and ceo behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , p. 167 - 206 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
383
RANK
687,436
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies