Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Bank Profitability Post-CEO Succession: Does Prior CEO Experience Improve Bank Performance?

The British Accounting Review, forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Peigong Li

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Feng Zhan

Western University

WanWan Zhu

Leeds University Business School

Date Written: June 20, 2024

Abstract

Based on a unique hand-collected dataset of CEO succession events in US bank holding companies (BHCs), we find that prior CEO experience of the newly appointed CEO improves bank profitability post-CEO succession, but primarily in underperforming banks. We distinguish prior CEO experience based on where the experience was obtained and find that the performance effect is driven by the experience gained outside the bank. Moreover, our study indicates that new CEOs with previous CEO experience acquired outside the bank are more likely to enhance profitability through earnings manipulation than those who obtained CEO experience within the bank or those who do not have any prior CEO experience.

Keywords: CEO Succession, Prior CEO Experience, Bank Profitability, Earnings Manipulation

JEL Classification: G21, G34, J24

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Li, Peigong and Zhan, Feng and Zhu, WanWan, Changes in Bank Profitability Post-CEO Succession: Does Prior CEO Experience Improve Bank Performance? (June 20, 2024). The British Accounting Review, forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of financial studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
E E Bailey , C E Helfat
External management succession, human capital, and firm performance: An integrative analysis
Managerial and decision economics , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 347 - 369 Posted: 2003
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial accounting in the banking industry: A review of the empirical literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
552,669
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies