Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scaling Core Earnings Measurement with Large Language Models

52 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 21 Mar 2025

Matthew Shaffer

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

We study the application of large language models (LLMs) to the estimation of core earnings, i.e., a firm's persistent profitability from its central business activities. This construct is central to investors' assessments but increasingly challenging to quantify as financial disclosures become more "bloated'' and accounting standards increase non-recurring impacts on GAAP net income. LLMs, with their ability to interpret unstructured text and mimic human reasoning, may be well-suited for this task. Using 10-K filings from U.S. public companies between 2000 and 2023, we employ LLMs with two prompting strategies: (i) a baseline "one-shot'' approach providing only a definition of core earnings and the full 10-K, and (ii) a sequential approach using the model to summarize unusual losses, then gains, and then aggregate them. Under the baseline approach, the LLM conflates core earnings with other financial concepts (e.g., EBITDA). However, the sequential approach yields a measure that outperforms GAAP Net Income and Compustat's alternatives in key tests of properties a valid core earnings measure should have. Our findings demonstrate how LLMs can reduce information processing costs for tasks requiring judgment over complex disclosures, while highlighting the importance of careful prompt engineering.

Keywords: Large Language Models, Core Earnings, Financial Statement Analysis, Generative AI, Accounting, Textual Analysis, Machine Learning, Qualitative Reasoning

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41, C45, C63, D83

Suggested Citation:

Shaffer, Matthew and Wang, Charles C. Y., Scaling Core Earnings Measurement with Large Language Models (October 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale effects in capital markets-based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3-4 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
G.-Y Choi , A G Kim
Firm-Level Tax Audits: A Generative AI-Based Measurement Posted: 2024
A B Curtis , S E Mcvay , B C Whipple
The disclosure of non-gaap earnings information in the presence of transitory gains
Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 933 - 958 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Edward Xuejun Li , Zhiyuan Tu , Dexin Zhou
<p><span>The Promise and Peril of Generative AI: </span><span><span>Evidence from GPT-4 as Sell-Side Analysts</span></span></p>
57 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 1,404
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,274
RANK
7,641
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies