Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The issues of carbon pricing in the Russian Federation: the local and international perspective under the cost approach and the role of afforestation projects

13 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2024

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Olga Medvedeva

The State University of Management - Department of Economic measurements

Alexander Pavlov

Independent

Date Written: October 05, 2024

Abstract

The Paper discusses the role of afforestation projects and other climate technologies in the green agenda for Russia and adduces arguments for anchoring carbon pricing in the cost approach, specifically, with reference to afforestation projects. The cost approach framework indicates the fair price of carbon in the Russian jurisdiction at the level of 20-25 dollars per tonne of CO2-eq,, which is more than double the amount of the current value of carbon levies set under the Sakhalin GHG quota experiment.

Keywords: afforestation projects, climate projects, carbon pricing, cost approach to valuation, carbon credits, Sakhalin carbon quota experiment

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I. and Medvedeva, Olga and Pavlov, Alexander, The issues of carbon pricing in the Russian Federation: the local and international perspective under the cost approach and the role of afforestation projects (October 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
V E Pinaev , E Pinaev , S Zhang , T N Ledashcheva
Greenhouse Gas Validation and Verification Bodies in Russia and Chinaa New Reality
, volume 10 Posted: 2023
The National Registry of RF Carbon units Posted: 2024-10-01
Reuters
Russia's Sibur to issue carbon credits under international programme Posted: 2023-12-12
The Economic Development Ministry simplifies the offset of carbon units Posted: 2024-07-23
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
795
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies