Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Effects of Foreign Directors on CEO and Director Compensation

51 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 2 Sep 2025

Madison Borrelli

University of Central Florida - Department of Finance

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Melissa B. Frye

University of Central Florida - College of Business Administration

Ann Marie Whyte

University of Central Florida

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how the background of foreign directors (FDs) influences executive and director compensation. We find that civil law FDs are linked to increased CEO cash compensation while common law FDs are associated with higher equity-based CEO pay, reflecting a stronger emphasis on shareholder alignment. These patterns are also evident when considering the economic freedoms and the cultural individualism of the directors’ country of origin. Specifically, boards with higher average institutional quality and individualism are linked to more equity-based CEO compensation. In addition, FDs serving on compensation committees that originate from common law systems, economically free countries, and highly individualistic cultures are more likely to structure both CEO and director pay in ways that align with shareholder interests.  Overall, our findings suggest that the institutional, legal, and cultural backgrounds of FDs play a key role in shaping CEO and director pay structures. 

Keywords: CEO compensation, Director Compensation, Legal Origin, Foreign Directors, Mutual Back Scratching

JEL Classification: G34, M41, K15

Suggested Citation:

Borrelli, Madison and Cumming, Douglas J. and Frye, Melissa and Whyte, Ann Marie,

The Effects of Foreign Directors on CEO and Director Compensation

(October 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 Posted: 1986
J M Barrios , P A Bianchi , H Isidro , D Nanda
Boards of a feather: Homophily in foreign director appointments around the world
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1335 Posted: 2022
J Becker , J Medjedovic , C Merkle
The effect of CEO extraversion on analyst forecasts: Stereotypes and similarity bias
Financial Review , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 133 - 164 Posted: 2019
I E Brick , O Palmon , Wald , J K
CEO compensation, director compensation, and firm performance: evidence of cronyism
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , p. 403 - 423 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
RANK
702,914
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies