Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Solar Flare Up: Systemic Organizational Risk in the Residential Solar Industry

STANFORD CLOSER LOOK SERIES, AUGUST 14, 2024

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4980392

13 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 14, 2024

Abstract

The concept of systemic organizational risk is critically important in corporate governance. A systemic risk is one in which the system itself — through its incentives, structure, and culture — encourages or fails to detect behavior contrary to what is intended by those who developed or manage the system.

To illustrate the potential for systemic organizational risk to arise, we consider the curious case of the residential solar industry, in which complex financing, generous tax credits, generous sales commissions, and uncertain costs — coupled with widespread public interest in the adoption of solar — have combined to create an incredibly complex industry with multiple points of potential breakdown.

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, Solar Flare Up: Systemic Organizational Risk in the Residential Solar Industry (August 14, 2024). STANFORD CLOSER LOOK SERIES, AUGUST 14, 2024, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4980392, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Panel Efficiency: Factors, Optimization, and Future Prospects Posted: 2024-06
For a cost calculator, see MarketWatch
Wood Mackenzie estimates that 70 percent of residential solar projects require a loan. See Cheryl Winokur Munk
CNBC Posted: 2023-05-21
As one illustration of how these factors can change over time, the California Public Utilities Commission voted to reduce the allowable net metering rates in the state in 2022, resulting in an estimated 75 percent reduction of the value of solar energy credits and near tripling of the expected payback period on a new system (from 5 to 6 years to 14 to 15 years)
CNET Posted: 2022-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
RANK
819,493
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies