Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Canonical Correlation Analysis on the Relation of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) on Business Environment (Paying Taxes) in South China
Heliyon

33 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024 Publication Status: Under Review

Aaron Finley

Macau University of Science and Technology

Wei He

Macau University of Science and Technology

Hui Huang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Chitin Hon

Macao University of Science and Technology (MUST) - Faculty of Innovation Engineering

Abstract

Growing concerns about sustainability have lead investors and regulators to require more initiative and disclosures around Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG).  While numerous studies have been conducted on corporate performance and ESG, not much is known about the impact these regulations and disclosures have on the broader business environment. The objective of our research was to understand better the relationships between ESG and the business environment.   Based on survey data conducted in South China in 2022, this study employs Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) to investigate the relationship between perceptions on ESG and perceptions of the business environment (paying taxes).  The results show that there was a strong relationship between the perception of ESG aspects and the perception of the business environment (paying taxes).  The results show there is a stronger emphasis on aspects related to local community issues as opposed to ESG aspects of Global and regional implications, supporting legitimacy and stakeholder theories.  Moreover, there was seen to be a higher emphasis on tax areas that directly impacted the company.  These findings add important understanding on the relationship of ESG and the business environment.  Authorities can use this understanding to target resources on improving these ESG aspects that have a corresponding improvement to the business environment (paying taxes).  As these items are more related to local issues, this suggests that local authorities have more ability to influence the ESG and business environment (paying taxes) through local activities and engaging with local business organizations.

Keywords: business environment, Taxation, environment, social, Governance, ESG, Corporate Social Responsibility, Canonical correlation analysis

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Aaron and He, Wei and Huang, Hui and Hon, Chitin, A Canonical Correlation Analysis on the Relation of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) on Business Environment (Paying Taxes) in South China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4981833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4981833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
378
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies