Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Performance Effects of Giving Front-Line Employees Direct Access to Performance Data and Partially Dis-intermediating the Supervisors' Role in Feedback Delivery: Evidence from a Field Experiment

60 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2024

Shelley Xin Li

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Ethan Bernstein

Harvard Business School - Organizational Behavior

Date Written: May 09, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how giving front-line employees direct access to their performance data affects performance. To explore that impact, we conducted a field experiment at a service organization that made employees' daily time-use analytics-previously available only to supervisors-simultaneously available to the employees themselves. We find, compared with the pre-intervention mean value, a significant treatment effect (an 11-percent decrease) in nonproductive time relative to the control group. That time, however, flows not strictly to productive (revenue-generating) activities but largely to the most convenient outlets, suggesting-as supported by our qualitative evidence-that data transparency on average shifted behavior more toward avoiding nonproductive activities than toward approaching productive activities. (As one participant observed, it led people to "conform, not excel.") We examine three relational factors we believed, based on prior feedback research, could moderate the performance effect: perceived supervisor support, social comparison orientation, and work motivation type. Performance improvements are greater for employees who perceived their supervisors as less supportive and for those with low intrinsic motivation or high extrinsic motivation; we fail to find a moderating effect of social comparison orientation. Therefore, while we identify the avoidance (though not approach) value of transparent performance data, our results also tell a nuanced story about the supervisor's optimal role in delivering feedback: the ability to shift people away from "bad" and toward other uses of time depends on the employee's perception of supervisor quality and the employee's motivation type.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xin and Bernstein, Ethan S, The Performance Effects of Giving Front-Line Employees Direct Access to Performance Data and Partially Dis-intermediating the Supervisors' Role in Feedback Delivery: Evidence from a Field Experiment (May 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4981889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4981889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
184 References
M Aarons-Mele
Leading through anxiety
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2020-05-11
S Abuhamdeh , M Csikszentmihalyi
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivational Orientations in the Competitive Context: An Examination of Person-Situation Interactions
J. Pers , volume 77 , issue 5 , p. 1615 - 1635 Posted: 2009
S M Adams
Positive affect and feedback-giving behavior
J. Manag. Psychol , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 42 Posted: 2005
J Ahn , A K Khandelwal , S J Wei
The role of intermediaries in facilitating trade
J. Int. Econ , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 85 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
836
RANK
545,411
1 Citations
184 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies