Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Return Bias in Employee-Owned Firms

66 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2024

John Aland

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Heidi A. Packard

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

DJ Stockbridge

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the return properties of private employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs). Most ESOPs are sponsored by small private firms, with their valuations determined annually by an independent valuation specialist. Our evidence suggests that private ESOP returns may be subject to bias from management. Specifically, we note stark discontinuities in the distribution of returns around the zero percent threshold, with a bias toward positive reported returns. The likelihood of positive return bias is stronger in firms with workforces that are likely to be more sensitive to ESOP value changes. We find mixed evidence that outside monitors reduce positive return bias. In some instances, we find they exacerbate the effect. Additional evidence suggests that ESOPs prefer steady, less volatile return properties, particularly in cases where the repurchase obligation to employees is significant. Tests of the relation to employee turnover further suggest that these return properties may reflect a wish by managers to attract and retain employee talent. Recent government initiatives aim to increase the prevalence of ESOPs as a path to building retirement wealth for rank-and-file employees. Our descriptive results suggest that employees who are owners of their private employer firms may not always receive accurate information about the performance of their investment.

Keywords: Valuation, ESOP, employee ownership, employee turnover

JEL Classification: M40, M55, M52, G32, G51

Suggested Citation:

Aland, John and Packard, Heidi A. and Stockbridge, DJ, Return Bias in Employee-Owned Firms (October 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4982504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4982504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Aicpa
What every valuation analyst should know about employee stock ownership plans Posted: 2023-10
S Aldatmaz , P Ouimet , E D Van Wesep
The option to quit: The effect of employee stock options on turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , p. 136 - 151 Posted: 2018
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
347,387
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies