Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Islamic Corporate Governance Quality on Carbon Disclosure: An Empirical Study in Islamic Bank

14 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2024

Afifah Oki Nilasakti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Doddy Setiawan

Sebelas Maret University

Abstract

This study aims to explore the carbon disclosure made by Islamic banks through determinants. Using data from annual reports and sustainability reports of 55 global Islamic banks listed on the stock exchange for the period 2013-2022. This study focuses on determinants carbon disclosure through the quality of Islamic corporate governance mechanisms. Islamic corporate governance is represented by of sharia supervisory board (SSB) and board of directors (BOD). SSB and BOD are measured using a dichotomous score index that represents their respective characteristics. The study results show that the quality of SSB is able to encourage Islamic banks to be more responsive to sustainability issue, especially related to carbon emissions. In addition, the quality of the board of directors affects carbon disclosure, which means that the quality of the BOD plays a major role as a planner and executor in responding to sustainability issues, especially related to carbon emissions, and is able to meet stakeholder demands.

Keywords: carbon emission, voluntary disclosure, corporate governance, sharia supervisory board, Islamic bank

Suggested Citation:

Nilasakti, Afifah Oki and Setiawan, Doddy, Islamic Corporate Governance Quality on Carbon Disclosure: An Empirical Study in Islamic Bank. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4984707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4984707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
375
RANK
856,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies