Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Corporate Governance and Market Capitalization: The Role of Carbon Emissions Disclosure's

16 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2024

Kiswanto Kiswanto

Universitas Negeri Semarang

Doddy Setiawan

Sebelas Maret University

Y. Anni Aryani

Sebelas Maret University

Abstract

Carbon emission disclosure (CED) in Indonesia still does not have clear guidelines. This disclosure is still voluntary, and each company has its way of disclosing it in its financial statements. Information disclosed by the company will significantly impact the company's value on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. This study aims to reveal the effect of corporate carbon emission disclosure on market capitalization. This study also examines the role of carbon emission disclosure as a moderating variable. This study took a sample of mining companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Data analysis was carried out using reviews-based multiple regression. The results of the study showed that the Board of Directors (BOD), Independent Commisaris (INCO), and Managerial Ownerships (MANO) directly affected the company's value, while Audit Committee (ACO) and Institutional Ownership (INSO) were unable to increase the company's value. The statistical results show that good corporate governance (Board of Directors, Independent Commissaries, Audit Committee, Managerial Ownerships, and Institutional Ownership, and CED cannot directly affect market capitalization. However, testing the CED hypothesis as a moderating variable shows better results, CED can moderate the influence of good corporate governance (BOD, INCO, and INSO) on company capitalization. However, CED cannot moderate the impact of ACO and MANO on the market capitalization of companies in Indonesia. Overall, it can be concluded that disclosure of carbon emission information can increase the company's value. These results have an impact on companies to pay attention to stock price movements after carbon emission disclosure.

Keywords: Carbon Emissions Disclosure, Corporate Governance, Market Capitalization

Suggested Citation:

Kiswanto, Kiswanto and Setiawan, Doddy and Aryani, Y. Anni, Good Corporate Governance and Market Capitalization: The Role of Carbon Emissions Disclosure's. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4985658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4985658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
487
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies