Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GCC Banking Companies Risk Management Practices and its Impact on Their Financial Performance

Posted: 11 Dec 2024

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Date Written: September 15, 2023

Abstract

This article aims to explore the risk management practices (RMPs) of Islamic banks (IBs) and conventional banks (CBs) in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). It assesses the different phases of RMP, including risk understanding; risk identification; risk assessment and analysis; and risk monitoring. This study conducts a structured survey questionnaire to assess the RMP in both types of banks. We find that both types of banks rank the importance of RMP above the mid-point of the 5-point Likert scale. Using t-test analysis, we find no significant difference in RMP between both types of banks, except for understanding risk practice phase. Managers of CBs have a better understanding of risk management (RM) than IBs. We also examine the impact of RMP on banks' financial performance. The average return on Assets (ROA) and the average return on equity (ROE) over the years (2010-2017) are used as a proxy for financial performance. Applying robust White regression OLS, we find a significant impact on financial performance measures only for IBs. We refer to the fact that IBs follow the equity approach based on risk-sharing with their clients (depositors and investors). The regulatory authorities may find this study useful in enticing banks to implement the best RMP and so improve banks' performance.

Keywords: Conventional banks, financial performance, GCC, Islamic banks, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ayman E., GCC Banking Companies Risk Management Practices and its Impact on Their Financial Performance (September 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4987685
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies