Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Deal?: Predicting M&A Outcomes with Machine Learning

61 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Erik Elfrink

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Charles Irons

Georgia Institute of Technology - Accounting Area

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether machine learning algorithms that incorporate accounting fundamentals, deal characteristics, and macroeconomic indicators can predict which merger and acquisition (M&A) deals will be value creative versus value destructive, and offer three main results. First, non-linear machine learning models predict two-year post-deal announcement returns relatively well. A trading strategy that buys the stock of the deals with the highest predicted score quintile and sells short the stock of the deals with the lowest predicted score quintile generates market adjusted returns around 11.9%, while a linear prediction model does not provide significant returns. Second, the link between the machine learning prediction score and post-acquisition accounting earnings is not direct under machine learning or linear prediction models. This suggests that the M&A deals the market views as successful are not directly linked to earnings in the immediate years after the deal closes. Finally, we identify the specific macroeconomic, firm, and deal variables that explain why non-linear machine learning models succeed in predicting post-merger return success. Overall, we shed light on the M&A outcome puzzle that has persisted in the literature for decades, suggesting that prior papers may have been unable to clearly predict future M&A success due to being limited to linear models, excluding macroeconomic variables, and, in some cases, linking deal success to accounting earnings or cash flows in the first three years post-acquisition.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Fundamental Analysis, Financial Accounting

JEL Classification: G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Elfrink, Erik and Irons, Charles and Moon, James, What is the Deal?: Predicting M&A Outcomes with Machine Learning (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4987268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4987268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets Posted: 2002
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting Accounting Fraud in Publicly Traded U.S. Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
J Barney
Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
822
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,532
RANK
68,632
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies