Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Protection and Government Procurement Contracting

Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2024

Xiao Liu

Nankai Business School, Nankai University

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Lufei Ruan

San Francisco State University

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of creditor protection on the choice of government procurement contract types. We use the staggered adoption of anti-recharacterization laws (ARLs) as a quasi-natural experiment to investigate the research question. ARLs strengthen creditors’ rights to repossess collateral in bankruptcy and thus enhance creditor protection. Using a dataset of U.S. government contracts, we find a significant shift from the use of fixed-price contracts to cost-plus contracts after the adoption of ARLs. The effect is more pronounced for firms with higher default risk and stronger firm-government ties. We also find that the government is more likely to switch away or reduce the contract value for contractors affected by ARLs. Overall, our findings point to an important relation between debt contracts and government contracts. 

Keywords: Government contracts, Public procurement, Creditor protection, Creditor rights, Anti-recharacterization laws

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiao and Ma, Zhiming and Ruan, Lufei, Creditor Protection and Government Procurement Contracting (October 08, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4989976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4989976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
N Attig
Relaxed Financial Constraints and Corporate Social Responsibility
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 189 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 131 Posted: 2024
P Bajari , R Mcmillan , S Tadelis
Auctions Versus Negotiations in Procurement: An Empirical Analysis
J. Law Econ. Organ , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 372 - 399 Posted: 2009
P Bajari , S Tadelis
Incentives versus Transaction Costs: A Theory of Procurement Contracts
RAND J. Econ , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 2001
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How Much Should We Trust Staggered Difference-in-Differences Estimates?
J. Financ. Econ , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Huijuan Cao , Agnes Cheng , Xiaohui Fiona LI , Janus Jian Zhang
<div> Creditor Rights, Conflict of Interest Among Creditors, and Borrowers’ Accounting Conservatism: Evidence from Anti-recharacterization Laws </div>
Journal of Accounting, Auditing &amp; Finance (Forthcoming) · 59 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 5 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
966
RANK
307,529
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies