Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Machine-Readable Disclosures Facilitate Regulatory Scrutiny? Evidence from SEC Comment Letters


Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4989482

55 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Ben Wang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Emma Xin Xu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 05, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines whether machine-readable disclosures enhance regulatory scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In 2018, the SEC adopted a new filing format (XHTML) with embedded XBRL tags (Inline XBRL, or iXBRL), significantly improving the machine readability of financial reports. Using the mandatory adoption of iXBRL in a difference-in-differences design, we find that the SEC is more likely to issue comment letters to firms subject to the iXBRL mandate compared with firms not yet required to adopt it. This increase is more pronounced when the SEC’s workload is heavier and when filings are ex ante less human-readable and less machine-readable. Furthermore, using a large language model (LLM), we find that comment letters sent to firms adopting iXBRL prompt firms to take higher levels of corrective actions, indicating higher-quality review. The SEC also produces more outputs, such as longer comment letters, and initiates comment letters more quickly. Collectively, our findings provide fresh evidence that machine-readable disclosures improve the SEC’s efficiency and strengthen regulatory oversight.

Keywords: Machine-readable disclosure, regulatory scrutiny, inline XBRL, SEC comment letter, LLM

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ben and Weng, Liwei and Wu, Qiang and Xu, Emma Xin, Do Machine-Readable Disclosures Facilitate Regulatory Scrutiny? Evidence from SEC Comment Letters
(May 05, 2025). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 4989482, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4989482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4989482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Acemoglu , T Lensman
Regulating Transformative Technologies
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 359 - 376 Posted: 2024
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
P D Allison
Fixed Effects Regression Methods for Longitudinal Data Using SAS Posted: 2005
P D Allison
Fixed Effects Regression Models Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,755
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,092
RANK
11,093
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies