Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Stock Market Liquidity: The Case of Jordan

Sustainability, volume 16, issue 1, 2024[10.3390/su16010088]

14 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2024

Ruwaidah Haddad

Yarmouk University

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Ayham Haddad

DePaul University

Nabeel Sawalha

The American University of Kuwait

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to evaluate the level of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in the annual reports of Jordanian companies, and to examine its impact on stock market liquidity. The findings indicate a significant variation in the extent of CSR disclosure among the companies, with an average disclosure rate of 48.12% of the applicable items. The regression analysis results show no significant relationship between CSR disclosure and the bid-ask spread. The study concludes that investors do not heavily rely on CSR disclosures when making decisions about trading involving Jordanian companies. This lack of dependence may be attributed to such information's perceived inaccuracy or incompleteness. Investors may turn to alternative sources of information, such as news sources, and even advice from their networks.

Keywords: financial reporting, stock market liquidity, CSR disclosure, Jordan

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ruwaidah and Haddad, Ayman E. and Haddad, Ayham and Sawalha, Nabeel, Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure and Stock Market Liquidity: The Case of Jordan (December 21, 2023). Sustainability, volume 16, issue 1, 2024[10.3390/su16010088], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4989057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su16010088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
C I Barnard
The Functions of the Executive Posted: 1938
K Ejumudo , Z Edo , L Avweromre , J Sagay
Environmental Issues and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Nigeria Niger Delta Region: The Need for a Pragmatic Approach
J. Soc. Sci. Public Policy , volume 4 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2012
M M Saeed , F Arshad
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Source of Competitive Advantage: The Mediating Role of Social Capital and Reputational Capital
J. Database Market. Cust. Strategy Manag , volume 19 , p. 219 - 232 Posted: 2012
R Gray , D Owen , K Maunders
Corporate Social Reporting: Accounting and Accountability Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
385
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies