Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Ownership Concentration and Board Committees on Financial Performance: Evidence from Turkish and Nigerian Listed Companies

201 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Abubakar Karaye

Tishk International University

Assoc. Prof. Dr. İrge ŞENER

Cankaya University

Date Written: March 09, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the effect of corporate governance internal mechanisms which include board committees and ownership structure on the financial performance of corporations in Nigeria and Turkey. These two countries are the members of the Next Eleven countries popularly known as N-11, and also they form part of the popular acronym of MINT (Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey). This study aims to contribute to the literature by comparison of these important internal governance dimensions between Turkey and Nigeria. The data used in this study is that of 2012, which consist of 120 corporations listed in Borsa Istanbul and 94 Nigerian listed corporations, linear regression analyses and t-test were used to analyze the data. The findings indicate that there is a significant effect of presence of corporate governance committee in the board of corporations on financial performance. Besides, there exist significant differences between Turkish and Nigerian corporations in terms of the number of directors in the audit committee and existence of corporate governance committee, whereas no significant differences are present between the two countries regarding existence of risk management committee and block holdings of corporations’ shares.

Keywords: board composition, Board Committees, Ownership Structure, Corporate Governance, Financial Performance, Nigeria, Turkey

Suggested Citation:

Karaye, Abubakar Balarabe and ŞENER, Assoc. Prof. Dr. İrge, The Effect of Ownership Concentration and Board Committees on Financial Performance: Evidence from Turkish and Nigerian Listed Companies (March 09, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4990737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
287
1 Citations
349 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies