Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Capital Disclosure and Labor Market Outcomes: Evidence from Regulation S-K

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4991944

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4214

69 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 9 Oct 2025

Jung Ho Choi

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Dan Li

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Date Written: October 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine the labor market consequences of the 2020 Regulation S-K requiring human capital disclosure in 10K filings. Using large-sample job-level data and a Generative Large Language Model (GLLM), we observe that public firms subject to the regulation increase their disclosure of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) information in job postings relative to a matched sample of large private firms. The increase in job-posting disclosure is more pronounced among firms facing greater external pressure to increase their workforce diversity. These findings suggest a shift in demand for diverse candidates by public firms following the regulation. Yet, consistent with short-term inelastic labor supply, this demand shift lengthens the recruitment period, with noticeable improvements in workplace gender diversity emerging one year after the regulation, particularly among firms that demonstrate a credible commitment to DEI. Our study documents how securities regulations can impact labor market practices and underscores the challenges involved in improving workforce diversity.

Keywords: Securities Regulation, Labor Market, Disclosure, ESG, DEI, Human Capital Disclosure, LLM

JEL Classification: M41, M14, M51, J71, J78, G38

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jung Ho and Li, Dan and Macciocchi, Daniele, Human Capital Disclosure and Labor Market Outcomes: Evidence from Regulation S-K (October 15, 2024). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4991944, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4214, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4991944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4991944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
S Arif , Y S J Yoon , H H Zhang
The Information Content of Mandatory Human Capital Disclosures -Initial Evidence Posted: 2024
B Baik , O Even-Tov , R Han , D Park
The real effects of supply chain transparency regulation: Evidence from Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 587 Posted: 2024
M Bailey , S Glaeser , J D Omartian , A Raghunandan
Misreporting of mandatory ESG disclosures: Evidence from gender pay gap information Posted: 2022
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity washing. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
RANK
105,875
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies