Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Lead Independent Directors Serving on the Audit Committees Mitigate Management Opportunistic Qualitative Disclosure?

Posted: 18 Dec 2024

Peiyang Song

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Jean Jinghan Chen

University of Kent

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: October 20, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether lead independent directors (LIDs) serving on a firm’s audit committees (ACs) can mitigate management’s opportunistic tone in disclosure. We confirm this proposition using a sample of 14,296 firm-year observations of U.S. listed firms from 2003 to 2019. Our results show that LIDs with financial expertise have a greater mitigating effect on managerial tone manipulation. In addition, this effect is more pronounced when managers have more incentives to manipulate tone. Further channel analyses reveal that greater information accessibility, improved status, and the commitment of LIDs serving on ACs facilitate the mitigating effect. Our results hold after conducting numerous robustness checks and controlling for endogeneity. This study enriches the understandings of the role of LID, an emerging corporate governance setting.

Suggested Citation:

Song, Peiyang and Chen, Jean Jinghan and Liu, Ming, Do Lead Independent Directors Serving on the Audit Committees Mitigate Management Opportunistic Qualitative Disclosure? (October 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4993433
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies