Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Private Country-by-Country Reporting on Mergers and Acquisitions

60 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024 Last revised: 27 May 2025

Farzana Afrin

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Sabrina Chi

CSU Fullerton

Anh Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 26, 2025

Abstract

We examine the impact of mandatory private country-by-country reporting (CbCR)—a widely adopted tax transparency initiative—on mergers and acquisitions (M&As). Using difference-in-differences and regression discontinuity designs, we find that takeover premiums decline for affected targets after CbCR adoption relative to unaffected targets. This result is consistent with CbCR providing incremental information to acquirers and reducing information frictions during the negotiation and due diligence process. The reduction in premiums is more pronounced when CbCR provides additional information beyond publicly available subsidiary-level financial data and among ex ante tax-aggressive targets. Consistent with CbCR reducing information frictions, we also observe a higher percentage of consideration paid in cash, shorter due diligence, and improved post-acquisition performance for affected targets. Our study highlights the role of CbCR in mitigating information frictions in M&As, illustrating the spillover effects of mandatory private tax disclosure beyond tax authorities to a specific group of investors—M&A acquirers.

Funder Statement

Chi and Afrin acknowledge the financial support of the College of Business and Economics, California State University, Fullerton. Chen appreciates the financial support of C. T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston. Persson is grateful for the financial support of the Gies College of Business, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

Suggested Citation:

Afrin, Farzana and Chen, Novia (Xi) and Chi, Sabrina and Persson, Anh, The Effect of Private Country-by-Country Reporting on Mergers and Acquisitions (May 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4994645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4994645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
B Ayers , C Lefanowicz , J Robinson
Shareholder taxes in acquisition premiums: The effect of capital gains taxation
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
A Baker , D Larcker , C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
M Bennedsen , S Zeume
Corporate tax havens and transparency
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1264 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
349,044
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies