Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contract Contingencies and Uncertainty: Evidence from Product Market Contracts

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2024 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Kai Wai Hui

University of Hong Kong

Jun Oh

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

P. Eric Yeung

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2024

Abstract

We study contingencies written in firms' material product market contracts, focusing on the theoretical prediction of uncertainty as an important determinant. We identify contract contingencies from firms' public regulatory filings and examine the effects of general business uncertainty and specific innovation-related uncertainty. To enhance causal inference, we utilize two major business shocks (i.e., the 2008 Financial Crisis and the COVID pandemic) and the diffusion of 29 disruptive innovation shocks (Bloom et al. 2021). We also explore the effects of re-negotiation costs and writing costs. Overall, our empirical results are consistent with predictions from dynamic models of incomplete contracting.

Keywords: Incomplete Contracting, Contingencies, Uncertainty, Writing Costs, Re-negotiation Costs, Innovation

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H83

Suggested Citation:

Hui, Kai Wai and Oh, Jun and She, Guoman and Yeung, P. Eric, Contract Contingencies and Uncertainty: Evidence from Product Market Contracts (October 20, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4994707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4994707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
RANK
284,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies