Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Silent Skies: The Impact of Meeting Earnings Benchmarks on Bird Populations

60 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2024

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Wentao Yao

Xiamen University - School of Management

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Wei Zhu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 25, 2024

Abstract

This study presents the first large-scale empirical evidence of the negative externalities of corporate activities on biodiversity. We examine the impact on birds of firms managing earnings to meet benchmarks, based on prior findings that pollution increases when firms boost earnings to meet benchmarks. This setting aids identification as its effects are focused in space and time. We rely on a novel wildlife dataset that consists of over 200 million birdwatching diaries gathered from tens of thousands of locations across the United States, spanning the period from 2002 to 2018. We find a significant decrease in bird populations (abundance) around manufacturing plants during quarters when the parent firm meets or just beats consensus analyst forecasts. This decline in abundance persists over the long term and is not offset by birds relocating to adjacent areas. In addition to abundance declines, we also observe a lasting drop in the number of unique bird species (richness). Even though meeting earnings benchmarks seems an innocuous act of low economic or social consequence, documenting that its adverse effects extend from humans to wildlife carries important implications for sustainable development and biodiversity conservation.

Keywords: Biodiversity, bird abundance, species richness, meeting earnings benchmarks, real earnings management, externality

JEL Classification: G10, M41, Q56, Q57

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Jacob and Yao, Wentao and Zhang, Frank and Zhu, Wei, Silent Skies: The Impact of Meeting Earnings Benchmarks on Bird Populations (March 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4996478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4996478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
After imposing these data requirements, our final sample consists of 368,783 observer-plant-quarter observations for 63,831 plant-quarters of 17,520 firmquarters when considering bird observations within a 4 km distance from a plant's location. (As explained in Section 4.1, our main analysis is based on the 4 km sample as this distance represents the best tradeoff between relevance and sample size.) To address potential outliers, we Winsorize all non-indicator variables at the 1 st and 99 th percentiles of their pooled distributions. Panels A and B in Table 1 present summary statistics for the observer-plant-quarter-level and firm-quarter-level variables. The number of observations for the dependent variable Abundance increases from 219 Posted: 2022
Our sample period begins in 2002Q3 as the inaugural checklist in eBird was submitted in May Posted: 2002
E Agathokleous , Z Feng , E Oksanen , P Sicard , Q Wang , C J Saitanis , . . Paoletti , E
Ozone affects plant, insect, and soil microbial communities: A threat to terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity
Science Advances , volume 6 , issue 33 Posted: 2020
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
RANK
231,609
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies