Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating management-led corporate turnaround strategies compared to the application of business rescue proceedings: A case study of Rebosis Property Fund Limited

28 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Mamekwa Katlego Kekana

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: September 12, 2024

Abstract

The business rescue proceedings of Rebosis Property Fund Limited, a registered and publicly listed Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), represent a significant case study in the South African real estate sector and business rescue regime. In response to ongoing liquidity challenges, high debt levels, and a dwindling share price, several management-led turnaround interventions were implemented over the years, with limited success. Combined with a failed international expansion strategy to the United Kingdom, the Company experienced severe financial distress and decided to voluntarily enter business rescue in August 2022, a critical move aimed at rehabilitating the Company. This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of corporate turnaround strategies implemented by the management of Rebosis compared to the application of business rescue proceedings. This study follows a qualitative approach by analysing the annual integrated reports for the Company for the period 2013-2022 and the adopted 2023 business rescue plan. The study's findings indicate that for large, complex, highly regulated companies such as Rebosis, business turnaround interventions should be implemented early to circumvent liquidation and safeguard stakeholders' interests. This research, the first to focus on business rescue proceedings for REITs in South Africa, offers valuable insights for practitioners, policymakers, and scholars.

Keywords: business rescue, financial distress, turnaround strategy, real estate investment trust (REIT), restructuring

Suggested Citation:

Kekana, Mamekwa Katlego, Investigating management-led corporate turnaround strategies compared to the application of business rescue proceedings: A case study of Rebosis Property Fund Limited (September 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4997945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4997945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M M Ayaba , E Amo-Bediako , O Takawira
Evaluating the financial performance of listed REIT firms in South Africa: A 7-step DuPont model technique
International Journal of Applied Economics, Finance and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 267 - 278 Posted: 2023
O Akinsomi , K Kola , T Ndlovu , M Motloung
The performance of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment compliant listed property firms in South Africa
Journal of Property Investment & Finance , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 26 Posted: 2016
J Argenti
Corporate Collapse: The Cause and Symptoms Posted: 1976
V Braun , V Clarke , H M Cooper , American Psychological Association
Thematic analysis
APA Handbook of Research Methods in Psychology , p. 57 - 71 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
508,348
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies