Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Industry Spillover Effects of Auditor Industry Knowledge

Posted: 18 Dec 2024

Ting Luo

Tsinghua University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Ziliang Zhan

Tsinghua University

Date Written: February 01, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether auditor industry knowledge generates a cross-industry spillover effect. We hypothesize that auditor expertise in one industry can benefit the audits of clients in economically connected industries and increase the market shares in these industries. Leveraging audit firm merger waves in China as a shock to cross-industry knowledge transfer, we find that cross-industry expertise of one merging audit firm enhances the audit quality of clients of the other audit firm and increases the market share of the merged audit firm in economically connected industries. Additionally, we find that cross-industry knowledge transfer is associated with less frequent client defections and lower audit fees, implying that such knowledge engenders more client satisfaction and higher audit efficiency. Our evidence sheds light on the role that cross-industry knowledge plays in the production of audit services and deepens our understanding of the impact of audit firm mergers.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, D57, G34, D83

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Ting and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wu, Donghui and Zhan, Ziliang, Cross-Industry Spillover Effects of Auditor Industry Knowledge (February 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4997665
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies