Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LESSONS LEARNED FROM WARNING SIGNS BEFORE THE OCTOBER 7, 2023, FAILURE: STRENGTHENING BOARD AND AUDITOR OVERSIGHT

8 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Keren Bar-Hava

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

This paper argues that incomplete information analysis and over-reliance on technology can obscure financial risks, drawing parallels between audit failures and intelligence lapses such as the October 7, 2023, attack. It asserts that professional auditors and proactive boards are essential for corporate survival. Emphasizing a risk-based audit approach, the study highlights the need for holistic use of technology, critical thinking, and effective communication. The research offers actionable guidance for boards to enhance collaboration with auditors, integrate safeguards into decision-making, and strengthen corporate governance. By focusing on robust internal controls and proactive risk management, this study provides a framework to prevent future financial disasters.

Keywords: M42, M48 Internal Control, Audit Failures, Technology in Auditing, Risk-Based Auditing, Independent Directors, Corporate Governance Quality

Suggested Citation:

Bar-Hava, Keren, LESSONS LEARNED FROM WARNING SIGNS BEFORE THE OCTOBER 7, 2023, FAILURE: STRENGTHENING BOARD AND AUDITOR OVERSIGHT (October 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4998727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4998727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
T Aksoy , B Gurol , T Aksoy , U Hacioglu
Artificial intelligence in computer-aided auditing techniques and technologies (CAATTs) and an application proposal for auditors
Auditing ecosystem and strategic accounting in the digital era: Global approaches and new opportunities , p. 361 - 384 Posted: 2021
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
Audit committee disclosure tone and earnings management
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 780 - 799 Posted: 2021
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
K Bar-Hava , S Huang , B Segal , D Segal
Do independent directors tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth when they resign
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies