Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spiderweb of Partnership Tax Structures

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4998604

63 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2024

Ryan Hess

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Emily Black

New York University (NYU) - New York University

Zaynah Javed

Stanford University

Jonathan Hennessy

Stanford University

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Jacob Goldin

University of Chicago - Law School

Daniel E. Ho

Stanford Law School

Annette Portz

Government of the United States of America - Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

Date Written: September 06, 2024

Abstract

U.S. partnerships control more than $40 trillion in assets, vastly outnumber U.S. public firms, and contribute significantly to the U.S. tax non-compliance of pass-through entities, which is larger than the non-compliance of publicly traded corporations. However, the prior literature provides extremely little evidence explaining the pervasive use of such entities and which specific characteristics enable the lightly taxed nature of partnership business income. Using administrative U.S. tax data, we first create graphical organizational structures by tracing income through millions of partnership entities. We show that 80 percent of partnership groups are simple structures composed of one single partnership owned directly by individual taxpayers. In contrast, the most complex structures resemble "webs," characterized by multiple tiers of ownership and clusters of overlapping partners. Second, we determine the entity attributes associated with partnerships developing into complex organizations. Third, conditional on being selected for audit, complex partnerships are four percent less likely to be assessed additional tax, but the amount of assessments is larger. Fourth, we show that complex partnership audits have a high return-on-investment, generating $20 of assessments for each $1 spent, which is a rate over eight times that for corporations. Thus, beyond adding to the nascent literature explaining the prevalent use of partnerships, we provide new insights about the under-reporting of tax on U.S. business income and quantify the potentially large increases in tax revenue collection that could be obtained from increased enforcement of complex partnership businesses.

Keywords: Private firms, partnerships, tax noncompliance JEL Codes: H24

Declaration of Interest

One co-author is employed by the IRS, which provided data for the project.

Funder Statement

The research is funded by the Stanford Impact Labs, as well as by a grant from Arnold Ventures.

JEL Classification: H24, H25, D85, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hess, Ryan and Black, Emily and Javed, Zaynah and Hennessy, Jonathan and Lester, Rebecca and Goldin, Jacob and Ho, Daniel E. and Portz, Annette, The Spiderweb of Partnership Tax Structures (September 06, 2024). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4998604, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4998604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4998604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Ashish Agarwal , Shannon Chen , Lillian F Mills
Entity Structure and Taxes: An Analysis of Embedded Pass-Through Entities
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2021
Kristian D Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Eric J Allen , Sharat Jeffrey C Allen , David H Raghavan , Solomon
On the tax efficiency of startup firms
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 1887 - 1928 Posted: 2023
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of public economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Load more
1 Citations
Richard Cole Campbell , Jacob A. Robbins
The value of private business in the United States
Journal of Public Economics , volume 249 , p. 105466 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
181,327
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies