Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judging Audits: The Influence of Supreme Court Decisions on Audit Quality in Japan

26 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2024

Koki Arai

Kyoritsu Women's University

Kazuo Takeda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study scrutinizes the legal and economic underpinnings of two recent Japanese Supreme Court decisions on accounting audit quality control and analyzes the decisions' emphasis on rigorous risk assessment and adequate audit evidence. By asserting that auditors with limited roles require rigorous examinations and mandating that accountants thoroughly address identified risks and obtain sufficient evidence, the Supreme Court aims to enhance the transparency and credibility of the enigmatic 'black box' of auditing. This study situates these decisions within the economic frameworks of Taylor and Wiggins (1997), which juxtapose U.S. and Japanese quality assurance paradigms. It argues that the Supreme Court's rulings integrate elements of both, particularly emphasizing the Japanese model's focus on long-term relationships and continuous improvement, thereby embodying a hybrid approach. The paper makes a significant contribution to the ongoing debate over improving audit quality standards while maintaining trust and confidence in the financial system. It not only clarifies the judiciary's current stance on audit quality control but also offers a comparative perspective that draws parallels with audit regulation in the US and Europe, providing a comprehensive view of the evolving audit quality assurance landscape.

Keywords: Audit Quality Assurance, Auditing Standards, Risk Management, Supreme Court Decisions, Transparency, Credibility

Suggested Citation:

Arai, Koki and Takeda, Kazuo, Judging Audits: The Influence of Supreme Court Decisions on Audit Quality in Japan. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4999880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4999880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system definiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The influence of labor market power in the audit profession
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2024
C Aghamolla , I Guttman , E Petrov
Sequential reporting bias
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2024
W B Allen , D Liu
Service quality and motor carrier costs: An empirical analysis
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 499 - 510 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies