Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practice-Informed Accounting Research: The Role of Macroeconomic Events and Changes in Financial Reporting and Disclosure

87 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Mark E. Evans

Wake Forest University

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

Using events of recent macroeconomic cycles, we show that practice-informed accounting research is a large subset of academic research that provides important evidence on the extent to which financial disclosures provide information to anticipate firm performance. Specifically, we focus on the “emergence of derivatives, the internet, and terrorism” cycle (1995 – 2008) and the “digitalization of information, computing power, climate, and pandemic” cycle (2009 – 2020). We demonstrate how these cycles led to greater scrutiny of accounting disclosures, regulatory action, and subsequent research on the effectiveness of disclosure regulation. We also provide thoughts on future trends that could drive upcoming macroeconomic cycles and subsequent research that is likely to be needed. Finally, we impart advice to current and future accounting academic researchers for how they can develop the necessary institutional knowledge to execute relevant practice-informed research while also discussing the pros and cons of doing so. Overall, we demonstrate that a subset of accounting research is intricately linked to the macroeconomy and finds that investors generally respond effectively to disclosure; however, there are instances where markets are surprised by firm performance at least partly due to ineffective disclosure, and unintended consequences resulting from regulation designed to improve disclosure.


Keywords: Disclosure, Accounting, Macroeconomic Cycles, Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Evans, Mark E., Practice-Informed Accounting Research: The Role of Macroeconomic Events and Changes in Financial Reporting and Disclosure (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5000488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5000488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
139 References
Wang Luo , Yang Zhao , Zhang
find that inline XBRL reduces information asymmetry in the long run
Inline XBRL (mandated in 2018) has the potential to reduce processing costs by better integrating machine-readable contextual information directly into human-accessible 10-Ks Posted: 2023
Hail Christensen , Leuz ; Matsumura , Vera-Munoz Prakash
find that actual emissions as well as the decision to disclose emissions has value relevance. Specifically, greater emissions are associated with decreased value overall; however, the decrease in value is even stronger for those firms choosing not to disclose emissions. In later work, Griffin, Lont, and Sun (2017) also find that emissions are associated with decreased value; however, they do not find a difference between firms which disclose emissions and those which do not. While both papers use data from the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP), Matsumura et al. studies a sample period of 2006-08 while Griffin et al. study 2006-12. In a recent working paper, Aswani, Raghunandan, and Rajgopal (2023) make important distinctions about how the emissions data is collected (estimated from a data source vs. disclosed by the company, through CDP) as well as how the variable is measured (scaled vs. absolute). In terms of unscaled emissions, this paper finds that data estimated by a vendor is correlated with returns but data disclosed by a company is not. It is unclear, however, whether there are correlated omitted variables and these absolute estimated emissions may simply proxy for firm fundamentals
Grewal and Serafeim Posted: 2005
References Abraham , Olbert , Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry Posted: 2024
R Aggarwal , M Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit Boards: Size, Performance, and Managerial Incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
225,902
139 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies