Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Investment, Deterrence, and Compliance Effects of Ownership Transparency

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-12

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 162

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024 Last revised: 2 Jul 2025

Harald Amberger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Yuchen Wu

University of St. Gallen

Date Written: September 28, 2024

Abstract

We exploit the staggered adoption of beneficial ownership registers in the EU to study (i) whether and how the requirement to disclose information on an entity’s ultimate human owner (ownership transparency) shapes cross-border investment, (ii) whether ownership transparency deters “potentially illicit” versus “likely legitimate” activity, and (iii) which types of firms try to avoid ownership disclosure. We find that investment from non-EU financial havens into the EU declines significantly after countries adopt ownership registers. Public scrutiny and enforcement emerge as key factors shaping this decline. Further, potentially illicit actors do not appear to alter their investment behavior. Instead, they appear less likely to comply with the transparency regulation. Our findings provide insights relevant to regulation aimed at enhancing ownership transparency.

Keywords: ownership transparency, financial havens, cross-border investment, tax evasion

JEL Classification: D25, F23, H25, G34

Suggested Citation:

Amberger, Harald Johannes and Wilde, Jaron H. and Wu, Yuchen, Cross-Border Investment, Deterrence, and Compliance Effects of Ownership Transparency (September 28, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-12, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 162, Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5001436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5001436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
G B D Aihounton , A Henningsen
Units of Measurement and the Inverse Hyperbolic Sine Transformation
Econom. J , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 334 - 351 Posted: 2021
P D Allison
Fixed Effects Regression Models Posted: 2009
A Alstadsaeter , E Casi , J Miethe , B Stage
Lost in Information: National Implementation of Global Tax Agreements
SSRN Electron. J Posted: 2024
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
J. Polit. Econ , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
270,833
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies