Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Guide to SEC and Business Open Source Corporate Intelligence

UC Davis Business Law Journal, Vol. 25(2), pp. 54-86, 2025

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-43

39 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2024 Last revised: 23 Sep 2025

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Brian Elzweig

University of West Florida

Neal F. Newman

Texas A&M University School of Law

Date Written: October 28, 2024

Abstract

An agency of the U.S. intelligence community observes, "The explosion of open source intelligence (OSINT) in recent years has transformed how governments and people around the world consume and process information about society and global issues." It is likely that "We all use open-source and probably don't even realize it, but we also use it for different reasons. You might use open-source information to do a credibility check and to find out more about the person selling you something on Facebook marketplace." Others "may research someone… met on a dating app or before hiring someone for a job." Every use of a search engine such as Google or Bing constitutes a use of open source intelligence. Other examples of open source competitive intelligence includes: blogs; social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, or YouTube; newspapers; Internet sources containing videos and images; The Dark web; and other websites. In a business context, prior to the past few decades, most databases containing detailed corporate information have been behind rather expensive pay walls. Disclosures required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)-such as annual, quarterly, and notice of materially significant events-are a particularly valuable source of information for those engaged in business strategy. Other U.S. government agencies provide valuable information about various topics. This is the focus of our guide.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, Bureau of Intelligence and research, (INR), business strategy, CISA, civil liberties, communication, corporate governance, cybersecurity, data, data acquisition, data sets, disclosure, Division of Corporation Finance, DOJ, Enforcement, Executive Order 12333, FTC, National Open Source Committee, (NOSC), National Institute of Standards and Technology, newspapers, NIST, open source, privacy, search engines, SEC, Securities and Exchange Commission, Social Science Research Network, SSRN, strategic planning, Yahoo Finance, JEL Classifications: Word Count (including footnotes)= 10, 424

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

None provided

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J. and Elzweig, Brian and Newman, Neal F., Guide to SEC and Business Open Source Corporate Intelligence (October 28, 2024). UC Davis Business Law Journal, Vol. 25(2), pp. 54-86, 2025, Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5002093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
See Old Money
Battle of Waterloo-making a killing, GlobalCapital Posted: 2015-06-09
Benjamin Clapham , Martin Haferkorn , Kai Zimmermann
The Impact of High-Frequency Trading on Modern Securities Markets, 65 BUS INF SYST ENG , volume 7 Posted: 2023
M Paul , Wall Healy , Research Street Research , Harv Summary , Bus , Sch
#:~:text=Wall%20Street%20research %20helps%20to Posted: 2024
M Paul , Wall Healy , Research Street Research , Harv Summary , Bus , Sch
All rights reserved Brian Elzweig & Neal F. Newman "Michael" and "Bazzell"; while including the quotes and searching for the term "Michael Bazzell" produces a search result of only 8,770. 34 The introduction of AI will likely have a profound impact on search as we have known it. For example
#:~:text=Wall%20Street%20research %20helps%20to , volume 36 Posted: 2024-07-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
104,934
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies