Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO War Trauma and Corporate Tax Avoidance

64 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Seunghyun Cho

Kyungpook National University - School of Business Administration; KAIST College of Business

Jinhan Pae

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Choong-Yuel Yoo

KAIST College of Business

Date Written: April 30, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of CEOs’ traumatic experiences on corporate tax avoidance. Using CEOs who experienced the Korean War, we find that firms led by war-traumatized CEOs exhibit lower levels of tax avoidance than those led by non-traumatized CEOs. Our results are robust to controlling for managerial characteristics, such as CEO age, education, and stock ownership, and to the applications of propensity score matching, entropy balancing, and placebo tests. Analysis of CEO turnover further bolsters our main finding. We also find that the effect of CEO war trauma on tax avoidance is less pronounced for firms that belong to chaebols, have higher foreign investor ownership, and have award-winning CEOs. Overall, our results highlight the role of traumatic experiences in shaping CEOs’ risk preferences, which, in turn, affect corporate tax planning.

Keywords: CEO characteristics, War trauma, Risk taking, Tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Seunghyun and Pae, Jinhan and Yoo, Choong-Yuel, CEO War Trauma and Corporate Tax Avoidance (April 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5002009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
404
RANK
682,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies