Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crime And (Financial) Punishment: The Impact Of Violent Crime On Municipal Borrowing Costs

65 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2024 Last revised: 28 Feb 2025

Connor Kasten

East Carolina University - Department of Finance

Banks Osborne

East Carolina University - Department of Finance

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

This paper quantifies the significant yet previously unexplored cost of crime on public financing. We find that higher violent crime rates significantly increase municipal bond yields, spreads, and adjusted spreads. Using changes in local district attorney political party as a novel identification strategy, we show that these shifts lead to increased violent crime and borrowing costs. This effect is concentrated in switches from deterrence-focused to reform-focused district attorneys, consistent with investor perceptions that changes in prosecutorial discretion may influence local crime risk. These switches also result in credit rating downgrades, reduced sales and property taxes, and increased emigration of high-net-worth individuals. 

Keywords: Municipal Bonds, Borrowing Costs, Crime, Politics

Declaration of Interest

No declarations of interest.

Funder Statement

No funding of this research.

JEL Classification: G12, G18, G28, G31, H74, H76, K42

Suggested Citation:

Kasten, Connor and Osborne, Banks, Crime And (Financial) Punishment: The Impact Of Violent Crime On Municipal Borrowing Costs (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5002174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D Abrams
Estimating the Deterrent Effects of Incarceration Using Sentencing Enhancements
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 4 , p. 32 - 56 Posted: 2012
L Addington
Studying the Crime Problem with NIBRS Data: Current Uses and Future Trends, Handbook on Crime and Deviance Posted: 2009
A Agan , J Doleac , A Harvey
Prosecutorial Reform and Local Crime Rates
, p. 22 - 33 Posted: 2021
A Almeida , G Montes
Effects of Crime and Violence on Business Confidence: Evidence from Rio de Janeiro
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 47 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
371,780
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies