Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Case Study Analysis of the OECD Pillar One and Pillar Two Allocations to Developing Countries - What Has Changed Since the 2020 Blueprints?

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 2-20

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Alexander Fedan

Independent

Abstract

This article reviews the changes to the OECD's Pillar One and Pillar Two solutions since the 2020 Blueprints by updating the case-study approach simulating the operation of the proposals under three profit-shifting schemes. The analysis reveals significant changes to Pillar One and Two integration and further increases tax revenue unpredictability.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/e97e1y

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), Amount A (Pillar 1, OECD), Amount B (Pillar 1, OECD), developing countries, profit shifting, top-up tax, STTR (OECD), UTPR (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Fedan, Alexander, Case Study Analysis of the OECD Pillar One and Pillar Two Allocations to Developing Countries - What Has Changed Since the 2020 Blueprints?. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 2-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/e97e1y
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies