Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Property Income as "Per Se" Passive Income: A Comparative Analysis of Controlled Foreign Company Rules in the European Union Before and after the Implementation of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (2016/1164)

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 533-546

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Jessica M. Müller

Independent

C. Spengel

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses the treatment of intellectual property income under EU controlled foreign company rules before and after the implementation of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (2016/1164). It addresses the lack of common, operationalizable criteria to realize equality for digital businesses, and provides reform options, including the consideration of the OECD's Pillar Two.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1tmqjsz

Keywords: intellectual property, CFC, ATAD, Pillar 2 (OECD), IIR (OECD), digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Jessica M. and Spengel, C., Intellectual Property Income as "Per Se" Passive Income: A Comparative Analysis of Controlled Foreign Company Rules in the European Union Before and after the Implementation of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (2016/1164). Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 533-546, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1tmqjsz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies