Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attributing Income to a Former Pe and Other Issues: A Critical Comment on the Sis Live Case and on Judicial Propriety

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 474-479

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Dhruv Janssen-Sanghavi

Independent

R. Bhatt

Independent

Abstract

The authors analyse critically the approach adopted by the Indian Income Tax Appellate Tribunal whilst applying the India-UK Tax Treaty (1993) in the recent case of SIS Live (2023). They address important questions about the existence of, and timing issues in attributing income to, permanent establishments, and about judicial propriety.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/19zh9bd

Keywords: case law, tax treaty, PE, allocation of profits, source of income, interest withholding tax, exemption

Suggested Citation:

Janssen-Sanghavi, Dhruv and Bhatt, R., Attributing Income to a Former Pe and Other Issues: A Critical Comment on the Sis Live Case and on Judicial Propriety. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 474-479, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/19zh9bd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies