Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Environmental Disclosures on Financial Performance of Quoted Industrial Goods Manufacturing Sectors in Nigeria (2011 -2020)

Posted: 2 Jan 2025

Christian Chima

University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, Umuagwo

Josephine Chikaodi

Imo State University - Owerri

Mmadubuike Obiah

Imo State Polytechnic

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

This study evaluated environmental disclosures on financial performance of quoted industrial goods manufacturing sectors in Nigeria. The study employed quasiexperimental research design to establish the relationship that exists between environmental disclosure index and financial performance indices (return on assets-ROA, return on equity-ROE, and earnings per share-EPS). Purposeful sampling technique was employed to select five (5) industrial goods manufacturing sectors quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Secondary data, covering 2011 to 2020 financial years, were extracted from annual reports of the study sectors, using a content analysis method. The data were analyzed using SPSS, Version 23. Panel Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression method was employed in estimating the unknown parameters in the study's regression model after conducting diagnostic and preliminary tests to ascertain that the data set are reliable and not misleading. Empirical results show that there is a negative insignificant relationship between environmental disclosure index (EDI) and the performance indices (ROA, ROE, and EPS) of industrial goods manufacturing sectors in Nigeria. The study recommended that: only relevant information which increases the performance indices should appear on the disclosure checklist; environmental disclosure practices should be country-specific; and company executives in Nigeria should increase and monitor the level of investment (resources, time, and energy) in order to ensure that environmental disclosure has significant impact on financial performance.

Keywords: Earnings per Share, Environmental Disclosures, Return on Assets, Return

Suggested Citation:

Chima, Christian and Chikaodi, Josephine and Obiah, Mmadubuike, Evaluation of Environmental Disclosures on Financial Performance of Quoted Industrial Goods Manufacturing Sectors in Nigeria (2011 -2020) (October 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003595
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies