Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Latest Generation of Tax Functions and the Role of Technology

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 10, Pages 562-571

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Sveinung Baumann-Larsen

Independent

A. Giannelli

Independent

Abstract

This article explores how and why tax functions are needed to transform the role of people, processes and technology in driving forward change. At a time when tax administrations are being asked to do more with less, there is no better time to explore tax technology and its benefits.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/16p1a4n

Keywords: information technology, tax technology, tax authorities, automation, transparency

Suggested Citation:

Baumann-Larsen, Sveinung and Giannelli, A., The Latest Generation of Tax Functions and the Role of Technology. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 10, Pages 562-571, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/16p1a4n
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies