Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar One, Pillar Two, Transfer Pricing and the Arm's Length Principle: A Tangled Web of New and Old Taxing Rules

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 446-459

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Raffaele Petruzzi

Independent

A. Padwalkar

Independent

Abstract

The OECD Inclusive Framework introduced the Two-Pillar solution - intended to coexist with the current tax framework - to address challenges in an evolving economy. The interaction between the new and old rules may create tensions. This article examines potential tensions between the Pillars and existing transfer pricing rules.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1v4xcrm

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), transfer pricing, arm's length principle, transfer pricing adjustment, GloBE (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Petruzzi, Raffaele and Padwalkar, A., Pillar One, Pillar Two, Transfer Pricing and the Arm's Length Principle: A Tangled Web of New and Old Taxing Rules. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 446-459, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1v4xcrm
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies