Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consistency Versus "Gold Plating": The EU Approach to Implementing the OECD Pillar Two

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 183-196

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Marco Dietrich

Independent

C. Golden

Independent

Abstract

This article considers the proposed EU Directive to transpose the OECD Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) Model Rules into EU secondary law. It describes the key aspects of the rules, notes the differences between the EU proposal and the OECD Model Rules, and demonstrates how the new charging provisions will operate.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/30f9dy5

Keywords: GloBE (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), GILTI, MNE, PE

Suggested Citation:

Dietrich, Marco and Golden, C., Consistency Versus "Gold Plating": The EU Approach to Implementing the OECD Pillar Two. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 183-196, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/30f9dy5
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
96
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies