Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dissemination of Tax Good Governance Standards by the European Union and the OECD: A Comparative Analysis of Changes in Treatment and Tone

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 148-156

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefanie Geringer

Independent

Abstract

This article sets out to shed light on the evolution of the dissemination of tax good governance standards by the European Union and the OECD, provide potential explanations for the diametrical developments in treatment and tone, and critically assess the European Union's current approach in light of the global socio-political context.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/qkdq7v

Keywords: tax good governance, tax policy, tax compliance, BEPS Project (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Geringer, Stefanie, Dissemination of Tax Good Governance Standards by the European Union and the OECD: A Comparative Analysis of Changes in Treatment and Tone. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 148-156, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/qkdq7v
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
63
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies