Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Decision of the Italian Supreme Court on the Relationship between the Concepts of Beneficial Ownership and Abuse of Tax Treaties

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 261-268

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paolo Arginelli

Independent

M. Tenore

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors examine the implications of Decision No. 17746 of 22 June 2021 of the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation regarding "beneficial ownership" and its interaction with abuse of tax treaties in the context of royalty payments, as well as the allocation of the burden of proof upon the withholding agent.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/egrnmh

Keywords: case law, beneficial ownership, treaty abuse, royalties, burden of proof, withholding agent

Suggested Citation:

Arginelli, Paolo and Tenore, M., Key Decision of the Italian Supreme Court on the Relationship between the Concepts of Beneficial Ownership and Abuse of Tax Treaties. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 261-268, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/egrnmh
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies