Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interaction of the Duty to Make a Suspicious Activity Report Under the Proceeds of Crime Act and the Obligation to Report Under Hallmark D of Dac6 and the OECD Mandatory Disclosure Regime

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 573-581

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Grahame Jackson

Independent

Harriet Brown

Independent

Abstract

This article exists because of a disagreement. The authors regularly work together in practice and in print. They both work in the field of international tax information exchange regimes and have opinions that sometimes diverge. They diverge particularly in relation to the subject matter of this article.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3wcn4vw

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, tax fraud, tax evasion, reporting requirements, intermediary, exchange of information, CRS, DAC6, illegal activity

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Brown, Harriet, The Interaction of the Duty to Make a Suspicious Activity Report Under the Proceeds of Crime Act and the Obligation to Report Under Hallmark D of Dac6 and the OECD Mandatory Disclosure Regime. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 573-581, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3wcn4vw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
85
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies