Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competencies, Competence and the Arm's Length Principle

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 556-572

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Richard S. Collier

Independent

I.F. Dykes

Independent

Abstract

This article is concerned with competencies and competency assets, a form of intangible asset. The discussion deals primarily with the nature of competency assets, and why they are important in the context of the current income allocation rules, despite being barely recognized by the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3gx38hx

Keywords: arm's length principle, intangibles, allocation of income, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, risk management, goodwill, value creation

Suggested Citation:

Collier, Richard S. and Dykes, I.F., Competencies, Competence and the Arm's Length Principle. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 556-572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3gx38hx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies