Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Challenges and Opportunities in E-commerce of Bangladesh

16 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2024

Kazi Mushfiq Hossain

University of Barishal; Independent

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

In the past decade, Bangladesh has witnessed the rapid growth of E-commerce, opening up new business opportunities and, at times, challenging existing tax policies. This paper delves into the complex tax environment faced by Bangladeshi e-commerce firms, presents their main taxation dilemmas, and discusses potential strategies for recovery compliance. Despite the significant economic advantages that e-commerce offers, regulatory issues, especially in determining customs duties and paying VAT, can pose significant obstacles, as indicated by this new study. However, Bangladesh has the potential to harness the tremendous growth potential of ecommerce and improve its tax system through a comprehensive policy reform that integrates technology. This paper also suggests other measures, such as tax rate changes, active regulatory enforcement, consumer awareness campaigns, or other digital systems, to foster a more effective governance environment.

Keywords: E-commerce taxation, VAT (Value Added Tax), customs duties, tax obligations, tax compliance, tax evasion, tax avoidance, regulatory efficiency, Bangladesh

Declaration of Interest

I declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this paper, "Tax Challenges and Opportunities in E-commerce." This research has been conducted independently, without financial or personal relationships that could inappropriately influence or appear to influence the work presented here. I have no affiliations with any organizations or entities that would benefit from the findings discussed in this study.

Ethics Approval

The study, titled "Tax Challenges and Opportunities in E-commerce," did not involve human participants, animal subjects, or any other form of data collection requiring ethical approval as per institutional and international guidelines. Consequently, no formal ethics approval was required. The research was conducted following ethical standards for academic research integrity.

Funder Statement

I'm the sole author who funded the whole amount to complete this research.

JEL Classification: H23, H25, H2

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Kazi Mushfiq, Tax Challenges and Opportunities in E-commerce of Bangladesh (October 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5006260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5006260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
D Fukushima , Y Otake , N Koike , S Onishi , T Mori , N Ota , H Yamada
Investigation of the Oral Retention of Tea Catechins in Humans: An Exploratory Interventional Study
Nutrients , volume 13 , issue 9 Posted: 2021
M N Ahmed
Taxation of E-commerce in Developing Countries: Bangladesh Perspective
Dhaka University Journal of Business Studies , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 64 Posted: 2018
M R Alam , S N Uddin , M Akter
Digital transformation and e-commerce taxation challenges in Bangladesh
Asian Journal of Economics and Business Studies , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 11 - 29 Posted: 2019
S R Chaudhury , M M Rahman
Addressing VAT collection challenges in the e-commerce sector: A case study of Bangladesh
Journal of Economic Policy & Analysis , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 101 - 123 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
592,557
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies