Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Covenants and Lenders' Economic Incentives

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 5007113

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

61 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Ting Dai

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

We study how debt contracts are structured to mitigate the agency costs of borrowers’ pollution. First, we document that among the various contracting provisions available to lenders, the use of environmental covenants increases monotonically with borrower pollution. In contrast, reliance on other provisions like spread and collateral (whether individually or in combination) either plateaus or declines as pollution rises. Second, we show that environmental covenant use is not uniform across pollution types, but concentrated in pollution types that create significant liabilities for lenders in the event of borrower bankruptcy. Third, we unpack the types of environmental covenants and find that lenders employ both covenants requiring specific actions and covenants requiring  disclosure of pollution-related information. The choice between those different covenants varies systematically with lender's uncertainty about borrower’s pollution risk. Our study documents how debt contracts manage agency problems arising from environmental uncertainty.

Keywords: Environmental covenants, Debt contracting, Bank specialization, Pollution, ESG

JEL Classification: G21, Q50, G32

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Ting and Macciocchi, Daniele and Morris, Arthur, Environmental Covenants and Lenders' Economic Incentives (November 01, 2024). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 5007113, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5007113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5007113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
T Adam , D Streitz
Hold-up and the use of performance-sensitive debt
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 26 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2016
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Aleszczyk , M Loumioti
ESG-debt lemons": Institutional investors and the pricing of sustainability-linked bonds
SSRN Electronic Journal , p. 1 - 85 Posted: 2024
A Aleszczyk , M Loumioti , G Serafeim
The issuance and design of Sustainability-Linked loans
SSRN Electronic Journal , p. 1 - 62 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
237,535
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies