Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Aggressive Tax Planning Discourage Government Subsidy Applications? Evidence from the Paycheck Protection Program

51 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Ben Wang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how firms' aggressive tax practices shape their decisions to apply for government subsidies. Utilizing the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) during the COVID-19 pandemic as a laboratory, we find that firms with higher levels of tax aggressiveness prior to the outbreak of COVID-19 are less likely to apply for PPP funds, a specific form of government subsidy. This effect is more pronounced among firms subject to greater public attention and tighter regulatory scrutiny. Our findings remain consistent across a large sample of firms during non-crisis periods, indicating the generalizability of our findings beyond the crisis context. Overall, our results shed light on the role of tax aggressiveness in the allocation of public funding.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, government subsidies, paycheck protection program, COVID-19, public scrutiny, regulatory scrutiny

JEL Classification: G28, G38, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ben and Wu, Qiang and Zeng, Cheng, Does Aggressive Tax Planning Discourage Government Subsidy Applications? Evidence from the Paycheck Protection Program (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5007771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5007771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies Posted: 2023
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
639
RANK
448,944
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies