Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Targeting Transparency: Early Evidence on Mandatory Adoption of European Sustainability Reporting Standards

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 165

122 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2024 Last revised: 2 Oct 2025

Charlotte-Louisa Donau

University of Cologne; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Katharina Hombach

Goethe-Universitat Frankfurt am Main

Inga Elise Meringdal

Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Victor Wagner

LMU Munich School of Management; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) constitute the most comprehensive introduction of mandatory ESG reporting globally to date--and the first to require standardized disclosure of material impacts on people and the planet. We propose to study its effects on firms’ sustainability-related transparency, measured based on granular datapoints, rich narrative context, and hand-collected data on firms’ discretionary implementation choices. For EU firms adopting ESRS for the first time in 2024, we will provide detailed descriptive evidence of ESRS-induced transparency changes, compared to those of global non-EU peers. We will examine the nuanced ways in which reporting incentives shape the effects of mandatory ESRS adoption, especially on impact-related transparency. Finally, we assess its broader implications for comparability, accessibility, and stakeholders’ engagement with sustainability information. By integrating multiple sources of field evidence and external materiality benchmarks, pre-committing to a research design, and offering several open-science resources, we aim to provide timely, relevant, and credible evidence that facilitates future sustainability reporting research.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, ESG, effects analysis, ESRS, CSRS, transparency

JEL Classification: M41, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Donau, Charlotte-Louisa and Hombach, Katharina and Meringdal, Inga Elise and Müller, Maximilian A. and Sellhorn, Thorsten and Wagner, Victor, Targeting Transparency: Early Evidence on Mandatory Adoption of European Sustainability Reporting Standards (October 14, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 165, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5010700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5010700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
A Beatty , S Liao , J J Yu
The spillover effect of fraudulent financial reporting on peer firms' investments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 183 - 205 Posted: 2013
F Berg , K Fabisik , Z Sautner
Is History Repeating Itself? The (Un)Predictable Past of ESG Ratings Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,941
RANK
29,451
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies