Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does disclosure regulation affect mutual fund families' proxy voting?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming 

51 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Eunjee Kim

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

Date Written: November 05, 2024

Abstract

Nonactivist investors that own more than five percent of a firm must report their holdings by filing a 13G in which they must commit to not influencing control of the firm. Mutual fund families are the most common investors filing 13Gs. I study whether the 13G requirement affects mutual fund families' voting in proxy contests. I find mutual fund families that file the form are less likely to vote for activist proposals than are those that do not, suggesting that the requirement discourages mutual fund families from supporting activists who seek to influence control of the firm. The effects strengthen when vote outcomes directly affect the firm's control and when activists pose a higher threat to the firm. I further document that the aggregate voting power of 13G-filing mutual fund families correlates with management winning contested votes and retaining board seats during proxy contests.

Keywords: JEL Classification: G34, G23, G38, K22, L51, M12 Schedule 13G, proxy voting, proxy contests, mutual funds, regulations

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Eunjee, Does disclosure regulation affect mutual fund families' proxy voting? (November 05, 2024). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5010688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5010688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
RANK
772,295
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies