Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Data Breach Disclosure and Insider Trading

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5012929

52 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Xi Chen

University of Bristol

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: March 01, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether mandatory data breach disclosure affects insider-selling behavior and find that selling profits are greater after states require firms to disclose data breaches. The effect is more pronounced for firms with weaker corporate governance, higher cybersecurity risk, and without prior investment in material cyber protection programs. However, insiders profit less when they operate in states with stricter laws and face higher litigation risks. The evidence is consistent with managers personally hedging risks in the capital market when mandatory disclosure laws designed to protect customers are weakly enforced. Laws designed to improve transparency in the product markets may have the unintended effect of reducing the integrity of financial markets. However, insider sales also facilitate the incorporation of bad news in stock prices, making idiosyncratic crashes less likely. 

Keywords: Cybersecurity, Data breach, Regulation, Disclosure, Insider trading

JEL Classification: G18, M41, K22, K24

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xi and Hilary, Gilles and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee), Mandatory Data Breach Disclosure and Insider Trading (March 01, 2019). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5012929, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5012929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5012929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
444,118
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies