Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Covid-19 Pandemic on Financial Performance of Indian SMEs: Comparative Evidence from Manufacturing, Service and Pharmaceutical Sector

13 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2024

Ramesh Prasad

St. Xavier's University, Kolkata

Date Written: December 08, 2021

Abstract

Objective of the study: Covid-19 has severely damaged the nation economy all over the world. SMEs sector has tremendously suffered due to outbreak of Covid-19 (2020). The present research attempts to analyse the effect of covid-19 pandemic on financial performance of manufacturing sector, service sector and pharmaceutical sector of Indian SMEs, through a comparative study. The study has undertaken four financial performance indicators; total revenue, operating profit, net profit ratio and lastly liquidity. The analysis tools used pandemic. 



Design & methodology: For the purpose of the study, 100 listed Indian SMEs have been selected for two years (2019-20 & 2020-21). The sample SMEs have divided into three parts; for the present study are average values, changes in average values and percentage change in average values of different financial performance indicators during the study periods. 


Findings: The present comparative study found that the pandemic (Covid-19) has negatively affected both the manufacturing & service sector (excluding pharmaceutical sector) SMEs. However, pharmaceutical sector has performed well & less affected sector. Manufacturing sector SMEs have the most affected sector rather than service sector SMEs (excluding pharmaceutical sector). Only pharmaceutical sector SMEs have generated a positive abnormal return during covid period and improved its financial performance. 


Practical implication: The present study added valuable practical implication for managers, policy makers of SMEs. The sector wise covid impact reveals a clear picture before managers and helps to frame a sound strategy to minimize the negative shock arises from covid pandemic.

Keywords: Covid-19, Indian listed SMEs, Manufacturing sector SMEs, Service sector SMEs (excluding pharmaceutical sector), pharmaceutical sector SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Prasad, Ramesh, The Effect of Covid-19 Pandemic on Financial Performance of Indian SMEs: Comparative Evidence from Manufacturing, Service and Pharmaceutical Sector (December 08, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5014251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M D Chowdhury , A Sarkar , S K Paul , M D Moktadir
A case study on strategies to deal with the impacts of COVID-19 pandemic in the food and beverage industry
Operational Management Research , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2020
O E Enessi , U A Ibrahim
Effect of COVID-19 pandemic on the performance of small and medium business enterprises in Abuja-FCT, Nigeria
Open Journal of Business Management , volume 9 , issue 5 , p. 2261 - 2276 Posted: 2021
K Grondys , O Ślusarczyk , H L Hussain , A Androniceanu
Risk assessment of the SME sector operation during the COVID-19 pandemic
International Journal of Environment Research and Public Health , volume 18 , issue 8 Posted: 2021
R Harel
The impact of COVID-19 on small businesses performance and innovation
Global Business Review , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
436
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies