Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Skepticism in the Virtual Environment: Has the Pandemic Left Auditors Worse Off?

50 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2024

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine how the COVID-19 pandemic (pandemic, hereafter) and the associated shift to remote auditing disrupted the apprenticeship model. More specifically, we explore how diminished social interaction in a remote work setting affects auditors’ ability to exercise PS and related audit outcomes. To examine our research questions, we conducted a phenomenological study that focused on auditors’ lived experiences working in a remote environment (Gibbons and Qu 2005; Moustakas 1994). Our analyses rely on semi-structured interviews with 39 audit professionals employed by global network firms. We also analyze the PCAOB inspection reports for inspection years 2020 through 2023 to understand whether the challenges we identified in our interviews have implications for one measure of audit quality (e.g., Christensen, Glover and Omer 2016). Our findings identify the pathways through which auditors sought to simulate in-person social interactions in the remote environment to ensure high audit quality and situational determinants of the impacted auditors’ perceived ability to exercise sufficient professional skepticism. Our study extends prior research by providing contextual factors that influence auditor-client interactions and how remote work can enhance or exacerbate any tensions in these interactions.

Suggested Citation:

Walker, Kimberly and Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Auditor Skepticism in the Virtual Environment: Has the Pandemic Left Auditors Worse Off? (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5019745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5019745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M Argyle , J Dean
Eye-contact, distance and affiliation
Sociometry , p. 289 - 304 Posted: 1965
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
C D Bailey , D W Dalton , N L Harp , T J Phillips
Socializing remote newcomers in public accounting: Challenges and best practices from the perspective of experienced Big 4 professionals
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming Posted: 2023
D Barr-Pulliam , J R Joe , S Mason , K Sanderson
A. 2021a. The auditor-valuation specialist coopetitive alliance in the fair value audit of complex financial instruments
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
RANK
327,219
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies