Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women on the Board and Stock Market Performance, Evidence from the Nigerian Listed Firms

30 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: October 29, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This study investigates the impact of female board representation on stock market performance in Nigerian listed firms. Using a sample of 153 firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) between 2014 and 2023, we examine the relationship between female board membership and stock returns. This study aims to contribute to the ongoing debate on the role of gender diversity in corporate governance, focusing on the Nigerian context. Design/methodology/approach-We employ an event study approach, analyzing stock price performances to female board appointments. Regression analysis controls for firm-specific factors, such as size, leverage, and profitability. Findings-Our results show that female board appointments are associated with significant positive stock market performance. Furthermore, we find that firms with higher female board representation experience improved stock market performance, measured by Tobin's Q. Originality/value-This study provides novel insights into the Nigerian market, contributing to the scarce literature on gender diversity in Sub-Saharan Africa. Our findings have implications for policymakers, investors, and corporate leaders seeking to promote inclusive governance practices. The key contributions include the first study to examine the stock market performance to female board appointments in Nigeria. First to provide evidence supporting the business case for gender diversity in corporate governance. It informs policy initiatives promoting female representation on boards.

Keywords: Firm Leverage, Firm Liquidity, Firm Size, Nigerian Listed Firms, Stock Market Performances, Women on the Board Double Blind Review

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

None

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Women on the Board and Stock Market Performance, Evidence from the Nigerian Listed Firms (October 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5020658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5020658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
M Abbas , O A Yahaya
Do creditors care about ESG performance?
International Journal of Management, Economics, and Social Sciences , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 320 - 346 Posted: 2024
S Abbas , O A Yahaya
Audit committee and financial statement fraud likelihood
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
K Abdullahi , R Musa , O A Yahaya
Are CEOs hedge against share price fall?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 243 - 263 Posted: 2023
M Abdullahi , O A Yahaya
The impact of corporate governance on corporate social responsibility disclosure
Research in Management in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 252 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
RANK
640,233
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies