Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESTIMATING A PREDICTION MODEL FOR SHARE PRICE BASED ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE BOARD ATTRIBUTES IN NIGERIA

31 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: September 18, 2024

Abstract

However, existing studies mainly focus on the role of the organizational bottom line in influencing the share price. Also, these studies lack empirical studies. This study therefore explores the effects of the board of directors on the share price of the 153 publicly traded companies in Nigeria examined for 10 years (2014-2023). Board attributes are proxied in this paper by board gender diversity, board independence, and board size. The share price is the closing share price at the year's end. A mixed method of quantitative analysis was employed using a panel regression model. After accounting for diagnostic tests, the findings show that board gender diversity, board independence, board size, and firm profitability have significant effects on the share price. However, in contrast, firm size and firm leverage have no significant effects. Given these results, we conclude that board gender diversity, board independence, and board size, firm profitability are drivers of share price among listed companies in Nigeria. However, the study relies on three board attributes, which may not capture all board characteristics. Also, the study uses 10-year panel data, which may not be sufficient. Nonetheless, the study is novel, as it is the first to examine the nexus between board attributes and share price in Nigeria.

Keywords: board gender diversity, board independence, board size, leverage, profitability, size JEL Classification: C31, C38, C51, C87, M43, M48

Declaration of Interest

none

Ethics Approval

none

Funder Statement

none

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, ESTIMATING A PREDICTION MODEL FOR SHARE PRICE BASED ON THE INFLUENCE OF THE BOARD ATTRIBUTES IN NIGERIA (September 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5020704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5020704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
182 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies