Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on CEO Tenure and Firm Performance

38 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: September 27, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the moderating effect of board independence on the relationship between CEO tenure and firm performance. The purpose of this research is to explore whether firms led by female CEOs perform differently than those led by male CEOs, and how the level of board independence influences this dynamic. The research adopts a quantitative methodology, utilizing a panel data set of publicly listed firms from 2014 to 2023 across eleven (11) industries. Regression analysis is employed to assess firm performance, measured by Tobin's Q while controlling for variables such as audit quality, firm size, and leverage. Board independence is quantified by the percentage of independent directors on the board. The findings reveal that all the variables are significant in terms of Tobin's Q, but this effect is significantly moderated by board independence. Specifically, in firms with higher levels of board independence, the positive impact of CEOs tenure on firm performance is amplified. These results suggest that board independence plays a critical role in maximizing the potential benefits of tenure in leadership. The implications of this study extend to both corporate governance practices and tenure diversity initiatives. Firms should not only aim to increase tenure diversity in executive roles but also focus on enhancing board independence to unlock the full potential of diverse leadership. Policymakers and regulators may also consider the findings when framing guidelines for board composition and tenure representation in leadership. Limitations of the study include the use of archival data, which may not fully capture the nuances of board dynamics, and the potential for omitted variable bias due to unobserved firm characteristics. Additionally, the study is geographically limited to publicly listed firms in a single country, which may limit the generalizability of the findings. This research contributes original insights by combining two streams of literature-tenure diversity and corporate governance-offering a nuanced understanding of how board independence can influence the CEO tenure-firm performance relationship.

Keywords: JEL Classification: C23, C58, C87, M21, M24, M48 Audit quality, board independence, CEO tenure, firm performance, firm size, leverage

Declaration of Interest

none

Ethics Approval

none

Funder Statement

none

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, The Moderating Effect of Board Independence on CEO Tenure and Firm Performance (September 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5020694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5020694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
347,387
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies