Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Panel Study on Capital Structure and Profitability in the MENA Region Tourism Industry

12 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2024

Enida Demiraj

The American College

Suzan Dsouza

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

Finding the optimal debt-equity balance is always challenging as it impacts performance and financial risk. Moreover, this balance changes with the industry. Our study aims to assess the impact of capital structure (CS) on firm profitability in the tourism industry. The sample consists of 71 listed firms from the tourism sector of the MENA region. Through a quantitative approach, we use pooled and static panel regression, examining the annual financial published data of the selected firms from 2010 to 2021 sourced through the Refinitiv database. The results show that an increase (decrease) of the debt (equity) portion in the capital structure impacts both ROA and ROE negatively and significantly, even after controlling for asset tangibility, size, liquidity, inflation, COVID-19 effects, and loss-making firms in the sample. The findings suggest that tourism firms in the MENA region should avoid an aggressive capital structure policy. To our knowledge, this study is the first one to examine the impact of CS on the profitability of the tourism industry for the entire MENA region, thus being of great value to firm-level policymakers and investors in the region.

Keywords: MENA, Tourism Industry, Profitability, Capital Structure, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Demiraj, Enida and Dsouza, Suzan, A Panel Study on Capital Structure and Profitability in the MENA Region Tourism Industry (October 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5021164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5021164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Abor
The effect of capital structure on profitability: An empirical analysis of listed firms in Ghana
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 438 - 445 Posted: 2005
R Ahmed , R Bhuyan
Capital structure and firm performance in Australian service sector firms: A panel data analysis
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 13 , issue 9 Posted: 2020
A S Alarussi , S M Alhaderi
Factors affecting profitability in Malaysia
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 442 - 458 Posted: 2018
O F Atayah , M M Dhiaf , K Najaf , G F Frederico
Impact of COVID-19 on financial performance of logistics firms: Evidence from G-20 countries
Journal of Global Operations and Strategic Sourcing , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 172 - 196 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
778,745
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies