Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory CSR Disclosures and Real Asset Regulatory Leakage

60 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025 Last revised: 19 May 2025

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Lisa Yao Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Wendy Wen

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: May 06, 2025

Abstract

How concerning is real-asset regulatory leakage after corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure mandates? To address this question, we decompose reported safety improvements following the 2010 Dodd-Frank Section 1503 (DF1503) requirement to disclose mine-safety records in SEC filings into genuine safety improvements and those stemming from real-asset regulatory leakage. Using data on publicly owned (regulated) and privately owned (unregulated) mines from 2000 to 2021, we find that, after DF1503, the share of the least-safe US mines owned by public firms decreases by 36%. We estimate that 74% of this reduction reflects genuine mine-level safety improvements, while the remaining 26% is attributable to real-asset regulatory leakage—that is, ownership transfers and the avoidance of new investments in high-safety-risk mines. Most of the reported safety gains attributable to leakage (90%) stem from transferring inherently high-risk mines to unregulated firms, rather than from subsequent declines in safety under private ownership, which are relatively minor (10%). Overall, our findings suggest that, while roughly one-quarter of the observed safety improvement following DF1503 results from the reallocation of high-CSR-risk assets, the modest declines in CSR performance of the leaked assets were more than offset by safety improvements in the retained assets, consistent with an economy-wide CSR improvement. Nonetheless, overlooking the nontrivial shift of high-risk assets to the private sector could overstate the benefits of CSR disclosure mandates.  

Keywords: Real effects, leakage, greenwashing, social washing, Dodd-Frank Act, mine safety, ESG, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: D03, G14, G18, G38, I18, J28, K22, K32, L71, L72, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Liu, Lisa Yao and Maffett, Mark G. and Wen, Wendy, Mandatory CSR Disclosures and Real Asset Regulatory Leakage (May 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Söhnke M Bartram , Kewei Hou , Sehoon Kim
Real effects of climate policy: Financial constraints and spillovers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 668 - 696 Posted: 2022
Lori S Bennear , Sheila M Olmstead
The impacts of the "right to know": Information disclosure and the violation of drinking water standards
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 130 Posted: 2008
Daniel A Bens , Peter R Cai Chen , Joos
Mandated environmental liability recognition and the voluntary disclosure of ESG Information Posted: 2024
Pietro Bonetti , Christian Leuz , Giovanna Michelon
Internalizing externalities: Disclosure regulation for hydraulic fracturing, drilling activity and water quality Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,579
RANK
234,143
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies