Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generalist Managers and Firm Innovation Worldwide: The Role of Innovation-Specific Institutions

The paper has been accepted by Journal of Accounting and Economics

52 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Yue (Rio) Wu

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

We examine how generalist CEOs influence innovation outcomes across 25 countries from 2001 to 2019. We assemble a novel, extended dataset of generalist CEOs and find that generalist CEOs positively affect innovation, particularly in countries with abundant innovation resources. This finding aligns with the notion that generalist CEOs leverage their broad knowledge and cross-industry experience to integrate resources across institutional environments, thereby fostering innovation activities. However, in countries with stricter patent systems, the increased need for specialized knowledge and resources limits the value that generalist CEOs can contribute, leading to decreased innovation activities. Our research highlights how institutional environments shape the efficacy of CEO human capital in driving innovation, thus offering insights for the design of innovation policies that maximize leadership potential across different institutional contexts.

Keywords: Generalist CEO, Human capital, Managerial ability, Innovation, Innovation-specific institution, Stringency of patent systems, Availability of innovation resources JEL Codes: G15, G3, J24, M40, N20

Suggested Citation:

wu, yue and Huang, Sterling and Tsang, Albert and Wang, Kun Tracy, Generalist Managers and Firm Innovation Worldwide: The Role of Innovation-Specific Institutions (November 01, 2024). The paper has been accepted by Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5023909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5023909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Md Safiullah , Ghasan Baghdadi , Marc Goergen
Do Generalist CEOs Reduce Corporate Default Risk?
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1037/2025, The British Accounting Review, 2025[<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2025.101646" rel="nofollow">10.1016/j.bar.2025.101646</a>], · 49 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 4 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
612
RANK
508,348
1 Citations
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies