Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Family Ownership on Tax Avoidance: International Evidence

50 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Konstantinos Chalevas

Athens University of Economics and Business - School of Business

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Olga-Chara Pavlopoulou

Athens University of Economics and Business

Date Written: November 18, 2023

Abstract

Motivated by the global interest on tax avoidance and the unique nature and contribution of family firms to the global economy, this study examines the impact of family ownership on the tax behaviour of firms listed in 38 capital markets from 2008 to 2019. The study is the first to investigate both conforming and nonconforming tax avoidance practices across family and non-family firms using an international setting.The empirical findings document that family ownership is associated with lower conforming and nonconforming tax avoidance. The result is attributed to the reputation cost of tax avoidance that is higher in family firms due to socioemotional wealth preservation considerations that discourage tax avoidance practices. In addition, eponymy serves as a disciplining mechanism that further reduces tax avoidance in family firms. Finally, the cultural dimension of power distance -the societal belief that the members of an organization are not equal- attenuates the restraining effect of family ownership on tax avoidance.

Keywords: family ownership, corporate tax avoidance, conforming tax avoidance, nonconforming tax avoidance, reputation costs

JEL Classification: H26, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Doukakis, Leonidas C. and Chalevas, Konstantinos and Karampinis, Nikolaos I. and Pavlopoulou, Olga-Chara, The Impact of Family Ownership on Tax Avoidance: International Evidence (November 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A Ali , T.-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-Family Ownership and Firm Performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
M P Arena , M Dewally , B A Jain , Y Shao
Family firms' cross-border mergers and acquisitions
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 82 Posted: 2022
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami , X Zheng
Dividends and economic policy uncertainty: international evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
RANK
580,030
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies