Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics in Tax Policy: How National Generosity Levels Influence Corporate Tax Behavior

22 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Batjargal Bolor-Erdene

Seoul National University

Abstract

This study examines whether firms located in countries with high levels of the Giving Index are more or less likely to engage in tax avoidance compared to those in countries with low levels of the Giving Index. Using global data from 2010 to 2023, I find that firms in high-giving index countries are more likely to engage in significant tax avoidance. Additionally, I find that the quality of a country’s regulations and its political stability negatively affect the positive relationship between tax avoidance and the Giving Index. Moreover, I find that when firms in more generous countries pay higher taxes, their future performance improves. My results remain robust even after controlling for firm fixed effects and using alternative definitions of tax avoidance and the Giving Index. This study contributes to the literature on tax avoidance by exploring how national generosity levels influence corporate tax behavior.

Keywords: world giving index, Tax avoidance, national generosity levels

Suggested Citation:

Bolor-Erdene, Batjargal, Ethics in Tax Policy: How National Generosity Levels Influence Corporate Tax Behavior. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
R Bekkers
Global giving
Journal of Trial and Error , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 100 Posted: 2020
B Bolor-Erdene , S M Jung , S Park
The ties that bind: Social capital and perceived competition during financial crisis
Finance Research Letters , volume 53 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
RANK
572,087
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies