Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Smoothing GAAP ETRs Through Tax Accruals And The Quality of Financial Reporting

Forthcoming in the Journal of the American Taxation Association

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 5027573

Posted: 18 Dec 2024 Last revised: 21 Dec 2024

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Laura Yue Li

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

R. William Snyder

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether the smoothing of GAAP effective tax rates (ETRs) using tax accruals informs or obscures financial reporting quality. We develop a GAAP ETR smoothing measure that isolates variation in tax accruals from underlying variation in cash tax planning and performance reflected in GAAP ETRs. We find that smoothing ETRs through tax accruals is beneficial to financial statement users. Our tests show that GAAP ETR smoothing is associated with (1) greater ability of current-period ETRs to predict future cash ETRs; (2) analysts producing more accurate ETR forecasts; and (3) lower incidence of restatements and tax-related financial reporting fraud. We also find some evidence consistent with managers using their discretion to achieve these benefits, rather than our results being solely an artifact of GAAP rules. Our results suggest that accrual-based GAAP ETR smoothing informs financial statement users about tax outcomes and indicates enhanced financial reporting quality.

Keywords: effective tax rates, accrual management, financial reporting quality, smoothing, managerial discretion, ETR forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H26

Suggested Citation:

Demere, Paul and Li, Yue Laura and Lisowsky, Petro and Snyder, R. William, Smoothing GAAP ETRs Through Tax Accruals And The Quality of Financial Reporting (November 11, 2024). Forthcoming in the Journal of the American Taxation Association, Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 5027573, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5027573
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies