Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Groups in the Age of Tax Communication

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 154-158

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Daniel Gutmann

Independent

Abstract

The transposition of the Public CbCR Directive (2021/2101) provides an opportunity to draw attention to the trivialization of tax transparency imposed on large groups. It brings corporations into the era of communication on tax compliance and ethics. Communication is not limited to the compulsory dissemination of information: it may imply anticipating legal constraints and requires a genuinely strategic approach, both internally and with regard to third parties. This article examines some good practices that can be adopted for this purpose, as well as those actually implemented by corporate groups, particularly in France.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3b2tm7z

Keywords: group of companies, CbC Reporting, tax transparency, tax compliance, tax morale, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Gutmann, Daniel, Corporate Groups in the Age of Tax Communication. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 154-158, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3b2tm7z
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies