Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
60 Years of the European Convention on Human Rights and Taxation

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 12, Pages 526-533

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Philip Baker

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author provides a survey of European Court of Human Rights decisions, from the 1959 X v. Germany case, regarding a tax levy on speculative bonds, to a series of recent cases on the prohibition of double jeopardy (ne bis in idem) set out in article 4 of the Seventh Protocol. The author goes on to examine areas in which the application of the ECHR has resulted in changes in the law, the biggest failings of the ECHR/ECtHR, the position of the taxpayer in the 2020s and, finally, the cause of any shortcomings in failing to protect taxpayers' rights, together with possible solutions.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ghd5wb

Keywords: ECHR case law, human rights, ne bis in idem, taxpayers' rights, European Convention on Human Rights

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Philip, 60 Years of the European Convention on Human Rights and Taxation. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 12, Pages 526-533, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ghd5wb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
243
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies