Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Exit Taxation of Natural Persons Regarding Unrealized Capital Gains in Company Shares is Contrary to EU Tax Law

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 148-154

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Thomas Kollruss

Independent

Abstract

This article discusses the exit taxation provisions applicable to natural persons holding shares in corporations as private assets. In this context, Member States are obliged, under EU law, to grant a full deferral, without interest, of the assessed exit tax until an actual disposal of the shares. The provisions allowing for payment of the exit tax in instalments prior to an actual disposal of the shares, which is only allowed in the area of business entities, is not transferable to natural persons under EU law. The example of the new German exit taxation is used to demonstrate the fundamental lack of constitutionality and unlawfulness of such a regulation under EU law.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2sg3fna

Keywords: exit tax, capital gains tax, shares, EU tax law, ECJ case law, deferral, ATAD, constitutional law

Suggested Citation:

Kollruss, Thomas, Why Exit Taxation of Natural Persons Regarding Unrealized Capital Gains in Company Shares is Contrary to EU Tax Law. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 148-154, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2sg3fna
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies