Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judicial Review of the State Aid Decisions on Advance Tax Rulings: A Last Resort to Safeguard the Rule of Law

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Giulio Allevato

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author provides a critical examination of various decisions addressing whether advance tax rulings on intra-group transfer pricing policies granted to multinational enterprises are illegal State aid under articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Further, the author looks at whether the aid recovery process in these cases could be deemed to be contrary to the EU principles of legal certainty and the protection of legitimate expectations.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/238pb0p

Keywords: advance tax ruling, State aid, transfer pricing, arm's length principle, benchmarking, selectivity, rule of law

Suggested Citation:

Allevato, Giulio, Judicial Review of the State Aid Decisions on Advance Tax Rulings: A Last Resort to Safeguard the Rule of Law. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/238pb0p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies