Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Problems Caused by the Covid-19 Pandemic: Income Taxes and Social Security Contributions (an Overview)

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 5, Pages 185-194

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Katia Cejie

Independent

Abstract

A pluralism of legal sources, as well as the parallel application of these sources in respect of employment income, complicate the area of cross-border work. During the COVID-19 pandemic, new problems have arisen for these workers, which are identified and analysed in this article. The OECD has addressed some of these issues concerning taxation; however, the application of the social security system has not been discussed to date. In the concluding section of this article, further problems expected to arise in the aftermath of the pandemic are identified.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2m1qacv

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, income tax, employment income, social security, cross-border worker, expatriate, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Cejie, Katia, New Problems Caused by the Covid-19 Pandemic: Income Taxes and Social Security Contributions (an Overview). European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 5, Pages 185-194, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2m1qacv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies