Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Compensation for Remote Work Expenses in Portugal: Unnecessary Complexity Relative to Other EU Member States

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 311-315

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

António Martins

Independent

Daniel Taborda

Independent

Abstract

During the COVID-19 pandemic, remote workers had to bear the additional cost of new inputs needed to fulfil their professional tasks. In many EU Member States, compensation for these additional costs was dealt with by way of simple solutions in the law and by tax authorities. Portugal was no exception. Thus, rules had to be adopted to deal with remote worker compensation. A high degree of complexity, however, can be found in the Portuguese tax authorities? interpretation of the new rules. Not all Portuguese employers and employees grasped the new rules in 2022, and it is expected that, from May 2023, a simpler regime will correct the pitfalls highlighted in this note.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/pgwxww

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, remote working, expenses, domestic tax law

Suggested Citation:

Martins, António and Taborda, Daniel, The Taxation of Compensation for Remote Work Expenses in Portugal: Unnecessary Complexity Relative to Other EU Member States. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 311-315, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/pgwxww
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies