Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics and Cost of Capital of Listed Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria

15 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: February 04, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how board composition affects consumer goods companies' cost of capital in Nigeria. The relationships were found using pooled ordinary least-squares multiple regression analysis. Endogeneity and alternative measures did not affect the results' robustness. The study used panel data of thirteen (13) selected listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria that had consistently published their audited annual financial reports from 2007 to 2021 to achieve these objectives. A descriptive research design was used in the study. Statistical tools (STATA 17) were used to analyze the data using the panel multiple regression technique. Based on the weighted average cost of capital, the results showed a negative and significant relationship between board gender diversity and board size. Based on the results of the study, which were examined using the study's hypothesis, the following conclusion was reached. Firstly, there is a substantial and negative correlation between cost of capital and board size according to this study. Additionally, the results showed a negative and significant correlation between the cost of capital and the gender of the board. The following suggestions are made for the efficient and effective governance of consumer goods companies listed in Nigeria: to promote gender equality and improve good management, it is encouraged to maintain the maximum number of directors on the board by the Nigerian code of corporate governance and to give preference to the appointment of women directors for those companies with none. These results will help policymakers, regulators, and consumer goods companies assess whether the current corporate governance reforms are appropriate in preventing misconduct, mismanagement, and outrages to meet stakeholder goals.

Keywords: board gender diversity, board size, weighted average cost of capital JEL Codes: C31, C32, M47, M48

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

None

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Board Characteristics and Cost of Capital of Listed Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria (February 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5028900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Alhares
Corporate governance and cost of capital in OECD countries
International Journal of Accounting Information Management , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2019
L Abdulfatah , A O Yahaya , S E Agbi , S Tauhid
Effect of firm size on the relationship between managerial ownership and integrated reporting
Global Journal of Accounting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 54 Posted: 2023
S O Abu , O A Yahaya , C Abah
Effect of board monitoring mechanisms on audit quality of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria Posted: 2019
A A Abubakar , O A Yahaya , S G Joshua
Board characteristics and financial performance
Asian-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 94 - 106 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Dolapo Faith Sule , Tankiso Moloi
How Do Segment Disclosure and Cost of Capital Impact the Investment Efficiency of Listed Firms in Nigeria?
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 258 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
741,762
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies