Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Women Enhance Intellectual Capital?

33 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: August 04, 2024

Abstract

We show that women directors have a significant positive impact on intellectual capital among the 153 publicly listed companies in Nigeria. The study covers 10 years (2013-2022). A mixed method, majorly consisting of content analysis was used to collect data. The data was analysed by the use of descriptive statistics, Pearson correlations, and multiple regression analysis. The results show that women directors have a positive significant effect on intellectual capital. However, while firm size, firm profitability, and firm liquidity show significance, firm growth, and firm leverage fail to show significance. Our R 2 was 74.31 percent, suggesting the need to improve the study model. This may be possible by way of increasing the number of observations or including similar countries. The results of this study are limited to emerging countries like Nigeria. Our results provide new evidence that women directors do influence a firm's intellectual capital efficiency. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL (IC) IS AN ECONOMICALLY relevant and prevalent phenomenon in modern organizations. In recent years, intellectual capital has gained attention from scholars, industries, policymakers, and corporate circles

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

None

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Do Women Enhance Intellectual Capital? (August 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5028829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
161 References
M Abbas , O A Yahaya
Do creditors care about ESG performance?
International Journal of Management, Economics, and Social Sciences , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 320 - 346 Posted: 2024
S Abbas , O A Yahaya
Audit committee and financial statement fraud likelihood
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
K Abdullahi , R Musa , O A Yahaya
Are CEOs hedge against share price fall?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 243 - 263 Posted: 2023
M Abdullahi , O A Yahaya
The impact of corporate governance on corporate social responsibility disclosure
Research in Management in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 252 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
161 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies