Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU Digital Levy is Dead: Long Live a Pillar One Contribution?

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 132-135

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Redmar A. Wolf

Independent

Abstract

On 22 December 2021, the European Commission published its Proposal for "next generation of own resources" to finance the EU-response to the COVID-19 pandemic, but this did not include a new EU digital levy. Instead, a new EU contribution is being requested from Member States based on a reallocation of taxable profits under the future Pillar One regime. This note comments on the 22 December 2021 Proposal and the future of the EU digital levy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2tbtkmm

Keywords: DST, COVID-19 pandemic, Pillar 1 (OECD), emission rights, carbon tax, border tax adjustment

Suggested Citation:

Wolf, Redmar A., The EU Digital Levy is Dead: Long Live a Pillar One Contribution?. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 132-135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2tbtkmm
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies