Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Commission's Burden of Proof in Respect of Fiscal State Aid Following the ECJ Decision in the Spanish Sports Clubs Case

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 11, Pages 485-489

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

C. Pérez Merino

Independent

Abstract

The ECJ, in European Commission v. Fútbol Club Barcelona (Case C-362/19 P), ruled that the special tax regime for certain Spanish sports clubs constitutes State aid, annulling the previous decision of the General Court of the European Union and endorsing the European Commission's decision. In this case, the burden of proof that falls on the Commission in State aid procedures in tax matters was particularly contentious. This article provides commentary on the decision.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28fx38p

Keywords: ECJ case law, sports club, State aid, burden of proof

Suggested Citation:

Pérez Merino, C., The Commission's Burden of Proof in Respect of Fiscal State Aid Following the ECJ Decision in the Spanish Sports Clubs Case. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 11, Pages 485-489, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28fx38p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies