Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the OECD Principal Purpose Test in Accordance with EU Law: An Analysis of the Scope, Burden of Proof and Effects

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 11, Pages 472-484

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Carla Valério

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses whether or not the OECD Principal Purpose Test (PPT) lacks compatibility with EU law and, if so, whether it would be possible for Member States to interpret and apply the PPT in accordance with EU law. The author concludes affirmatively, considering the similarities in scope between the PPT and the EU abuse of law framework. The author notes, however, differences regarding the burden of proof and legal effects, and proposes applying the standard of abuse in relations with third states.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fvy6yh

Keywords: principal purpose test, OECD Model, abuse of law, EU law, burden of proof, GAAR, ATAD

Suggested Citation:

Valério, Carla, Applying the OECD Principal Purpose Test in Accordance with EU Law: An Analysis of the Scope, Burden of Proof and Effects. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 11, Pages 472-484, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3fvy6yh
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
76
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies