Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Legislative Tool for Introducing Eu-Wide Windfall Taxes

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 36-41

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Gabriella Erdős

Independent

G. Czoboly

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the authors describe and comment on the Commission's proposal to introduce a new regulation implementing emergency measures with the aim of mitigating high energy prices and the risk of supply shortages in Europe, as agreed to by the European Council on 30 September 2022. The authors also examine the legal compatibility of the planned EU windfall tax measures, comparing them to the existing Hungarian windfall taxes.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1srr3kp

Keywords: windfall profits tax, carbon tax, energy industry, mining industry, constitutional law

Suggested Citation:

Erdős, Gabriella and Czoboly, G., New Legislative Tool for Introducing Eu-Wide Windfall Taxes. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 36-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028820 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1srr3kp
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
60
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies