Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do audit firms and audit committees enhance earnings quality?

38 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether audit firms and audit committees contribute to enhancing earnings quality in publicly listed companies. It investigates how the index of audit firms (derived from size, opinion, independence, tenure, quality, and rotation) and audit committees (derived from independence, financial expertise, size, meetings, and gender) impact the accuracy and reliability of reported earnings. An empirical approach is employed using a sample of publicly listed companies over five years. The study utilizes a quantitative methodology, conducting regression analyses to evaluate the relationship between audit firm quality, audit committee characteristics, and earnings quality, as measured by accruals-based metrics and earnings restatements. The results suggest that higher-quality audit firms, particularly the Big 4, and more independent and financially expert audit committees are associated with improved earnings quality. The findings show that these factors reduce earnings manipulation, enhance transparency, and foster higher levels of financial reporting reliability. The study is limited by its focus on publicly listed companies, which may not generalize to private firms or those in non-regulated markets. Additionally, the study is restricted to a specific geographical region, limiting crosscountry comparisons. For practitioners, the results highlight the importance of choosing reputable audit firms and ensuring audit committees are composed of independent, financially knowledgeable members to enhance financial reporting quality. The research contributes to greater trust in financial markets by demonstrating that robust governance mechanisms, such as high-quality audits and audit committees, play a vital role in protecting investors' interests and promoting corporate transparency. The study provides evidence that supports strengthening regulatory policies concerning audit firm qualifications and the composition of audit committees to improve corporate governance and protect shareholders. This paper adds value to the existing literature by providing empirical evidence on the combined effect of audit firms and audit committees on earnings quality, offering insights into their complementary roles in enhancing the integrity of financial reporting.

Keywords: audit committee, audit firm, earnings quality, Nigeria JEL Codes: C23, C58, C87, M21, M24, M48

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

None

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Do audit firms and audit committees enhance earnings quality? (September 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5028833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
902
RANK
618,599
155 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies