Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Belgian Tax Consolidation Regime Eu-Proof?

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 22-28

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pieter-Jan Wouters

Independent

Abstract

The Belgian tax consolidation regime allows for current-year tax losses to be set-off against the profits of another Belgian group company. Other tax attributes, however, cannot be utilized, which may violate the EU Parent-Subsidiary Directive (2011/96). This does not seem to be the only EU hurdle - the direct participation requirement and holding period may trigger concerns with respect to the freedom of establishment. In this article, the author addresses these concerns and the proposed solutions.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/19skqc0

Keywords: tax consolidation, group of companies, Parent-Subsidiary Directive, participation exemption, holding company, domestic tax law, ECJ case law, fundamental freedoms

Suggested Citation:

Wouters, Pieter-Jan, Is the Belgian Tax Consolidation Regime Eu-Proof?. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 22-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/19skqc0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies