Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Platform Reporting (Dac7): Fundamental Considerations Regarding the Notion of 'Relevant Activity': A Belgian Case Study

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 475-486

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Felix Desmyttere

Independent

Abstract

The digital platform economy has been subject to various legislative interventions. In the context of taxation, the European Union has introduced obligations for digital platforms by Amending Directive to the 2011 Directive on Administrative Cooperation (2021/514) (DAC7). Despite the guidance of the Belgian legislator, certain notions remain unclear. This article focuses on the challenges related to the Belgian interpretation of the notion of ?relevant activity?. It demonstrates that the broad definition of this notion gives rise to Belgian interpretations that could cause friction with the intention of the European legislator and with the fundamental rights and freedoms of the reporting platforms.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1rf3dh0

Keywords: platform economy, digital economy, DAC7, reporting requirements, EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, constitutional law, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Desmyttere, Felix, Digital Platform Reporting (Dac7): Fundamental Considerations Regarding the Notion of 'Relevant Activity': A Belgian Case Study. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 475-486, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1rf3dh0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
169
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies