Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Belgian Tax Shelter for the Gaming Industry on the Horizon

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 127-131

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pieter-Jan Wouters

Independent

Abstract

Belgian tax law already provides for a beneficial tax incentive for companies investing in the production of audiovisual works and performing arts in Belgium. In order to support the rapid growth of the gaming and e-sports industry, however, Belgium's tax shelter regime will now be expanded to investments in the video gaming industry. Legislative adjustments were made to comply with EU law and to receive the European Commission's approval.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/14ns56y

Keywords: tax incentive, investment incentive, tax shelter, e-gaming, exemption

Suggested Citation:

Wouters, Pieter-Jan, Belgian Tax Shelter for the Gaming Industry on the Horizon. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 127-131, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/14ns56y
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies