Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Validity and Scope of Macro-Coherence

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 74-85

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Savvas Kostikidis

Independent

P. Hintermayer

Independent

Abstract

The scope of coherence, as a grounds justifying measures interfering with the fundamental freedoms, is limited by the concept of macro-coherence. This article analyses the origin and rationale of macro-coherence and how the concept relates to the balanced allocation of taxing rights. The authors argue that it should be abandoned. If not, this could reignite discussions about fundamental issues of EU tax law, such as most-favoured nation treatment and the obligation of Member States to conclude tax treaties.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ptczyn

Keywords: fundamental freedoms, justification, coherence principle, allocation of taxing rights, MFN, tax treaty, EU tax law, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Kostikidis, Savvas and Hintermayer, P., On the Validity and Scope of Macro-Coherence. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 74-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ptczyn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies