Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Formalistic Approach to the Application of Thin Capitalization Rules to Interest Flowing between Russian Companies of an International Group Abolished

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 461-463

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Mikhail Volkov

Independent

Abstract

In September 2020, the Supreme Court held that it is necessary, in applying the thin capitalization rules, to take into account their purpose, which is to counter abuse (LLC Mega Invest (Case A60-29234/2019)). Accordingly, when a taxpayer is not attempting to gain a tax advantage and there is no loss to the Russian budget, the taxpayer cannot be prevented from deducting interest expenses in full. This note contains an analysis of, and the author's commentary on, this pivotal case.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3h8nbdm

Keywords: thin capitalization, interest deduction, domestic tax law, case law

Suggested Citation:

Volkov, Mikhail, Formalistic Approach to the Application of Thin Capitalization Rules to Interest Flowing between Russian Companies of an International Group Abolished. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 461-463, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3h8nbdm
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
89
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies