Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Changes

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 439-441

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Lubka. Tzenova

Independent

Abstract

This note describes recent developments in Bulgaria, including: the introduction of new EU requirements for the use of corporate tax in the form of State aid for regional development; amendments relating to the tax treatment of food vouchers; an extension of the exchange of information on certain types of income subject to withholding tax; and the introduction of measures to implement Council Regulation (EU) 2022/1854.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1y8yx8z

Keywords: corporate income tax, domestic tax law, State aid, voucher, exchange of information, withholding tax, solidarity contribution

Suggested Citation:

Tzenova, Lubka., Corporate Tax Changes. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 439-441, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1y8yx8z
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
60
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies