Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Tax Compliance Tools in Ukraine with Select European Countries

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 423-431

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Artem Kotenko

Independent

I. Bondarenko

Independent

M. Kucheryavenko

Independent

O. Zaverukha

Independent

Abstract

This article examines tax compliance mechanisms in Ukraine and select EU Member States (Austria, Denmark, Germany, Poland and Switzerland). The authors focus first on the concept of a tax system and its various components, arguing that tax compliance methods are as much an element of the tax system as taxes and duties. Following a discussion of tax penalties and fines, the authors examine tax collection measures, focusing on tax liens, seizure of property, the enforcement of fines, the provision of security in lieu of payment, deferred payment arrangements and search and seizure mechanisms. Although the mechanisms are quite similar amongst the states surveyed, what can differ is the ease of use of these tools, the protections granted to taxpayers and the specific procedures implementing these tools, with such differences reflecting the unique legal, cultural and administrative context of each country.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/25j8rah

Keywords: tax compliance, penalties, fine, administrative, interest, collection of tax, enforcement, deferment of tax, search and seizure

Suggested Citation:

Kotenko, Artem and Bondarenko, I. and Kucheryavenko, M. and Zaverukha, O., A Comparison of Tax Compliance Tools in Ukraine with Select European Countries. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 423-431, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/25j8rah
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies