Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Exchange of Tax Information between EU Member States and Third Countries: Privacy and Data Protection Concerns

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 4, Pages 133-138

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Gianmaria Alberto Carlo Favaloro

Independent

Abstract

In recent decades, international pressure to enhance administrative cooperation and tax transparency has led to rapid implementation of structured exchange of tax information (EoTI) frameworks. However, the substantial increase in the volume of personal data processed is leading to significant privacy and data protection concerns. This article analyses the main issues arising in respect of EoTI between EU Member States and third countries in light of European Court of Human Rights and European Court of Justice case law.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1c3c1d9

Keywords: exchange of information, taxpayers' rights, data protection, ECJ case law, ECHR case law

Suggested Citation:

Favaloro, Gianmaria Alberto Carlo, The Exchange of Tax Information between EU Member States and Third Countries: Privacy and Data Protection Concerns. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 4, Pages 133-138, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1c3c1d9
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies