Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Administrative and Legal Regulation of Local Taxes and Fees in Ukraine: The Current State of Affairs and the Influence of EU Member State Legislation

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 214-219

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Olena Yara

Independent

S. Hlushchenko

Independent

M. Koval

Independent

H. Berlach

Independent

N. Lytvyn

Independent

Abstract

In recent years, Ukraine has intentionally taken a course towards European integration. This article provides a comprehensive analysis of the influence of the European Union on the regulation of local taxes and fees in particular. The article notes that a key area of concern is identifying and preventing tax evasion. The article proposes improvements to the decentralization mechanism, as well as an increase in the allocation of personal income taxes to local budgets.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/avckk8

Keywords: domestic tax law, local tax, tax evasion, decentralization, property tax, collection of tax

Suggested Citation:

Yara, Olena and Hlushchenko, S. and Koval, M. and Berlach, H. and Lytvyn, N., Administrative and Legal Regulation of Local Taxes and Fees in Ukraine: The Current State of Affairs and the Influence of EU Member State Legislation. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 214-219, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/avckk8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
94
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies