Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Just a Brick in the Wall: Why Italy is Violating Council Directive 2008/7/Ec in the Pending Ente Cambiano Case

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 273-282

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paolo Arginelli

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the request by the Italian Supreme Court for a preliminary ruling from the ECJ regarding the compatibility of the 2016 Italian legislation reforming the governance and regulation of cooperative banks with the EU Capital Duty Directive (2008/7). In particular, that legislation imposes a levy on cooperative banks that avoid a requirement to join a cooperative banking group by contributing their business to a joint-stock company that carries out the banking activity. The author argues that the legislation violates the prohibition against Member States levying indirect taxes on capital contributions contained in article 5 of the Capital Duty Directive (2008/7).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/130d76a

Keywords: ECJ case law, banking, joint-stock company, capital duty, EU Directive, indirect tax, constitutional law

Suggested Citation:

Arginelli, Paolo, Just a Brick in the Wall: Why Italy is Violating Council Directive 2008/7/Ec in the Pending Ente Cambiano Case. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 273-282, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/130d76a
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies