Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The OECD Model Rules and Dac7: A Critical Assessment of Selected Design and Enforcement Issues

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 521-536

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Gandhi Zilli

Independent

Abstract

The OECD Model Rules and DAC7 have introduced a standardized reporting requirement for Platform Operators, forcing them to review and report information on the income and transactions of sellers. Amongst others, this article addresses two mandatory provisions that are included in DAC7 that may create some concerns. First, the inclusion of SME platforms raises issues regarding the limited resources and high opportunity costs for such platforms. Second, the obligation for non-EU platforms to report on EU sellers raises concerns regarding administration and enforceability.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/q4vtcc

Keywords: OECD Model, DAC7, reporting requirements, platform economy, SME, enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Zilli, Gandhi, The OECD Model Rules and Dac7: A Critical Assessment of Selected Design and Enforcement Issues. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 12, Pages 521-536, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/q4vtcc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies