Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Commission Publishes Inception Impact Assessment on a New EU System for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Abuse in the Field of Withholding Taxes

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 41-44

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paul Radcliffe

Independent

R. Devisscher

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the authors discuss the aim of the impact assessment and provide context to the initiative both in terms of previous work performed and the current state of play within the European Union.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/22nan09

Keywords: avoidance of double taxation, tax avoidance, withholding tax, refund, exchange of information, beneficial ownership

Suggested Citation:

Radcliffe, Paul and Devisscher, R., European Commission Publishes Inception Impact Assessment on a New EU System for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Abuse in the Field of Withholding Taxes. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 41-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/22nan09
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies