Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Protection of Individual Taxpayer Rights Regarding Exchange of Information on Request in the European Union

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 105-113

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefano Zagà

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author critically reviews the solution envisaged by the European Court of Justice in État luxembourgeois, a case regarding exchange of information on request proceedings that are deemed to be ?arbitrary and disproportionate?. The article explores the differences and implications of immediate and deferred legal remedies in light of the need to ensure a ?fair? balance between individual interests and the public interest to fight against international tax avoidance, evasion and fraud.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/34wneph

Keywords: exchange of information, taxpayers' rights, tax avoidance, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Zagà, Stefano, The Protection of Individual Taxpayer Rights Regarding Exchange of Information on Request in the European Union. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 2/3, Pages 105-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/34wneph
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
65
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies