Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance Evaluation using Financial Distress models with reference to Dabur India Ltd

Posted: 17 Jan 2025

Gattaiah Tadoori

IBS Hyderabad (A Constituent of the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education, a Deemed University) - IBS Hyderabad; Osmania University (OU) - Department of Commerce; AV College PG Centre

E. Ramesh

IBS Hyderabad (A Constituent of the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education, a Deemed University) - IBS Hyderabad

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

The global FMCG business is expected to reach close to $15000 billion by 2025 in the current era of e-commerce. Accordingly, FMCG is identified as the fourth-largest sector in India. One of the top businesses in India is Dabur India Ltd. As a result, we tried to evaluate the financial patterns and performance during the previous ten years. The main objective of this study is to assess the financial positions with respect to profitability, solvency, liquidity, etc. For the study, the ratio analysis techniques are employed and Financial Distress of Dabur India Ltd is analysed by Altman's Z-Score Model and Zmijewski Model. The study's overall conclusion unequivocally shows that Dabur is benefiting from positive financial performance across the board. This could assist Dabur India in maintaining a strong market share and a leading position in the FMCG industry.

Keywords: Financial Performance, Financial Distress, Financial Statement Analysis, Ratio Analysis, FMCG Industry

Suggested Citation:

Tadoori, Gattaiah and Ramesh, E., Financial Performance Evaluation using Financial Distress models with reference to Dabur India Ltd (November 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028593
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies