Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The French Supreme Tax Court Secures its Hold on the Tax Bases of Digital Enterprises by Reshaping the Dependent Agent Pe Concept

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 7, Pages 297-306

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stéphane Celoudou

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author comments on the French Supreme Court's Decision in Conversant, which addresses the test for determining whether a dependent agent permanent establishment (DAPE) exists. The author, after providing background details on the facts of the case and an historical overview of the DAPE provision, shows how the decision is consistent with previous decisions of the Court and the economic principles that underlie the international tax system originally established by the OECD Model.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3hk16jz

Keywords: agency PE, treaty interpretation, OECD Model Commentaries, case law, PE, MLI

Suggested Citation:

Celoudou, Stéphane, The French Supreme Tax Court Secures its Hold on the Tax Bases of Digital Enterprises by Reshaping the Dependent Agent Pe Concept. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 7, Pages 297-306, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3hk16jz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies