Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Report on the Symposium 'the Freedom of the Judge in the Interpretation of Regulations'

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 225-233

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

René Offermanns

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author reports on a symposium held on 9 February 2023 at the Royal Tropical Institute in Amsterdam, the topic of which was 'On the freedom of the judge in the interpretation of regulations: in the interpretation of the Multilateral Instrument (MLI) and in the interpretation of national regulations.'

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3e6a9h2

Keywords: case law, domestic tax law, rule of law, principal purpose test, MLI, proportionality, treaty interpretation, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties

Suggested Citation:

Offermanns, René, Report on the Symposium 'the Freedom of the Judge in the Interpretation of Regulations'. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 225-233, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3e6a9h2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies