Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insights into Compensation and the Effectiveness of Withholding Tax Refunds and Interest Payments: ECJ Decision in E. V. Dyrektor Izby Administracji Skarbowej We Wroc?Awiu (Case C-322/22)

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 442-446

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Hannelore Niesten

Independent

P. Prandecki

Independent

Abstract

This note examines the ECJ preliminary ruling issued on 8 June 2023 in E. v. Dyrektor Izby Administracji Skarbowej we Wroc?awiu (The Tax Chamber in Wroc?aw) (Case C-322/22), which challenges the EU law compatibility of Polish regulations that impose restrictions on the payment of interest on overpaid taxes based on the timing of refund requests. The ECJ emphasized the importance of the principles of effectiveness and sincere cooperation in ensuring that taxpayers receive adequate compensation for unlawfully levied taxes, including the payment of interest.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1b114wv

Keywords: withholding tax, refund, interest, investment fund, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Niesten, Hannelore and Prandecki, P., Insights into Compensation and the Effectiveness of Withholding Tax Refunds and Interest Payments: ECJ Decision in E. V. Dyrektor Izby Administracji Skarbowej We Wroc?Awiu (Case C-322/22). European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 10, Pages 442-446, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1b114wv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
85
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies