Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Concept of Final Losses Under EU Law and its Scope of Application

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 83-89

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Thomas Kollruss

Independent

Abstract

In the context of the recent ECJ decision in W AG (Case C-538/20), this article examines whether the ECJ has possibly, de facto, abandoned the legal concept of final losses or whether it wants to see it continue to be applied as a restrictive ultima ratio exception (based on its long line of case law) in accordance with the principle of proportionality. In this respect, the ECJ's line of case law is analysed, including the recent decision in W AG on final losses from permanent establishments exempt under a tax treaty.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2w8qz31

Keywords: losses, PE, tax treaty, exemption, ECJ case law, proportionality, comparability test

Suggested Citation:

Kollruss, Thomas, The Concept of Final Losses Under EU Law and its Scope of Application. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 83-89, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2w8qz31
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
61
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies