Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Investor Engagement

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 5030999

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1075/2025

51 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Davidson Heath

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Matthew C. Ringgenberg

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 06, 2024

Abstract

Institutional investors engage with their portfolio companies to communicate information and preferences. Using a discrete choice model and novel data on engagement, we find that the costs and benefits of engagement vary across funds and firms, with passive funds engaging relatively less than active funds due to their lower fees. Contrary to concerns that passive investing generates negative externalities, we find that society and investors benefit from the rise of passive investing because active funds exhibit diseconomies of scale but passive funds do not. Our results highlight a misalignment between the socially optimal and privately optimal behavior of institutional investors.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Engagement, Institutional Investors, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Heath, Davidson and Macciocchi, Daniele and Ringgenberg, Matthew C., The Economics of Investor Engagement (June 06, 2024). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 5030999, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1075/2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5030999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5030999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
D Aggarwal , L P Litov , S Rajgopal
Big three (dis)engagements Posted: 2023
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The big three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2021
L Bebchuk , A Brav , W Jiang , T Keusch
Dancing with activists
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 137 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,897
RANK
106,838
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies