Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts' Forecasting Models and Uncertainty About the Past

62 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025

Min Park

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Tzachi Zach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

We study the dynamics of the supply and demand of information in capital markets, focusing on how firms' disclosures align with analysts' information needs. Using a novel dataset from Visible Alpha, we analyze granular data from analysts' forecasting models to understand the breadth of information they seek and how firms meet these demands through mandatory and voluntary disclosures. We document significant variations in the complexity of analysts' models and the extent of firms' information supply, leading to some items in analysts' models that remain undisclosed. This unmet information demand gives rise to a novel concept we term "uncertainty about the past" (UP). We investigate the implications of UP on various capital market outcomes, including analyst forecast dispersion, market reactions to earnings announcements, stock market liquidity, and the timeliness of analysts' forecast revisions. Our findings reveal that UP significantly influences market dynamics, suggesting that improved disclosure practices enhance the information environment.

Keywords: Analysts, Uncertainty about the past

Suggested Citation:

Park, Min and Zach, Tzachi, Analysts' Forecasting Models and Uncertainty About the Past (November 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5030615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5030615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
K D Allee , D Erickson , A M Esplin , T L Yohn
Financial analysts' preferences regarding income statement presentation Posted: 2022
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
G Bensinger
Amazon Swings to Loss Despite Jump in Sales Posted: 2015-04-23
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,162
RANK
394,837
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies