Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Compliance Property Taxpayers: Analysis with Structural Equation Model

8 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Ifan Wicaksana Siregar

Universitas Jenderal Achmad Yani

Date Written: December 03, 2021

Abstract

This research examines the influence of property tax knowledge, moral obligations, taxpayer awareness, and local government service quality on tax compliance using several statements on a Likert Scale. The accidental sampling method was used to collect data from 499 respondents by distributing and analyzing questionnaires using the structural equation modeling (SEM) with Smart PLS method. The hypothesis test result indicates that moral obligations and property tax knowledge are positively and significantly influenced by tax compliance, meanwhile awareness is negatively affected and local government service quality is positively but insignificantly affected. Furthermore, the moral obligation of taxpayers demonstrates the conditions with the least influence on property taxpayer compliance. Therefore, the government needs to pay adequate attention to the improvement of service quality at the tax office to promote higher outcomes through employee training and socialization.

Keywords: property tax knowledge, property taxpayer awareness, moral obligations and local government service quality service, property taxpayer compliance

Suggested Citation:

Siregar, Ifan Wicaksana, Determinants of Compliance Property Taxpayers: Analysis with Structural Equation Model (December 03, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5031448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5031448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A A Alkhatib , M Z Hamad , M D Hermas
The Impact of Tax Ethics and Knowledge on Tax Compliance among Palestinian Taxpayers
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , issue 6 Posted: 2020
A D Chucks
Tax Morale and Its Effect on Taxpayers' Compliance to Tax Policies of the Nigerian Government
IOSR Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , issue 6 , p. 35 - 55 Posted: 2013
A F Sania , I Yudianto
Analysis of Factors that Influence Taxpayers Compliance in Fulfilling their Taxation Obligations: Study of Small Medium Entrepreneur (SMEs) Taxpayers Based on eCommerce in the Bandung Area
Journal of Accounting Auditing and Business , volume 1 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
A Nurkhin , I Novanty , M Muhsin , S Sumiadji
The Influence of Tax Understanding, Tax Awareness and Tax Amnesty toward Taxpayer Compliance
Jurnal Keuangan Dan Perbankan , volume 22 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
741,762
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies