Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Return to Office Mandates and Brain Drain

46 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Sep 2025

Yuye Ding

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Zhao Jin

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Betty (Bin) Xing

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Yucheng (John) Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 23, 2024

Abstract

By tracking over 3 million tech and finance workers’ employment histories on LinkedIn, we analyze the effect of return-to-office (RTO) mandates on employee turnover and hiring. We find that firms experience abnormally high employee turnover following RTO mandates. The increase in turnover rates is more pronounced for female employees, more senior employees, and more skilled employees. Further, it takes significantly longer for these firms to fill their job vacancies time after the mandates. Their hire rates also significantly decrease. These results are consistent with firms losing their best talent and female employees and face greater difficulties with talent attraction after RTO mandates. In addition, we find a significant increase in the percentage of departing employees who leave for lower ranked positions at companies in a different industry, suggesting that employees are willing to sacrifice their career for workplace flexibility. The results highlight brain drain as a significant cost of RTO mandates and underscore the importance of workplace flexibility to employees. The current study has important policy implications for corporate managers, especially those who are using or considering RTO mandates as “a less costly way” to reduce employee headcount without paying severance.



Keywords: Return-to-office Mandate, Employee Turnover, Employee Hiring, Human Capital

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Yuye and Jin, Zhao and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Xing, Betty (Bin) and Yang, Yucheng, Return to Office Mandates and Brain Drain (November 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5031481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5031481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The Changing Economics of Knowledge Production
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2023
D G Allen , P C Bryant , J M Vardaman
Retaining Talent: Replacing Misconceptions With Evidence-Based Strategies
Academy of Management Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 64 Posted: 2010
T Babina , A Fedyk , A He , J Hodson
Artificial intelligence, firm growth, and product innovation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 151 Posted: 2024
R P Baghai , R C Silva , V Thell , V Vig
Talent in Distressed Firms: Investigating the Labor Costs of Financial Distress
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 6 , p. 2907 - 2961 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
37,652
RANK
2,649
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies