Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Machine Learning and Counterfactual Explanations for Financial Distress Prediction

20 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024 Last revised: 25 Nov 2024

Minh Nguyen

Florida Atlantic University

Thanh Ngo

Faculty of Finance and Banking, University of Economics and Law, VNU-HCM, Vietnam

Bang Nguyen

University of Finance and Marketing (UFM)

Sukhwa Hong

University of Hawaii at Manoa - UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: November 24, 2024

Abstract

The use of machine learning for financial distress prediction has gained traction globally, yet the interpretability of these models remains underexplored, posing challenges for decision-making. This study bridges this gap by leveraging diverse counterfactual explanations (DiCE), Shapley additive explanations (SHAP), and various machine learning techniques to predict financial distress. Utilizing imbalanced financial distress data from an emerging economy, we prioritize balanced accuracy over traditional accuracy measures. Our findings indicate that neural networks and XGBoost deliver superior predictive performance. The application of DiCE offers actionable insights, enabling stakeholders to make informed decisions by adjusting key input variables to achieve desired outcomes.

Keywords: financial distress prediction, machine learning, counterfactual explanations, Shapley additive explanations

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Minh and Ngo, Thanh and Nguyen, Bang and Hong, Sukhwa, Using Machine Learning and Counterfactual Explanations for Financial Distress Prediction (November 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5032226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5032226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
C B Barry , J W Peavy , M Rodriguez
Performance characteristics of emerging capital markets
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 80 Posted: 1998
E C Charalambakis , I Garrett
On the prediction of financial distress in developed and emerging markets: Does the choice of accounting and market information matter? A comparison of UK and Indian firms
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2016
N V Chawla , K W Bowyer , L O Hall , W P Kegelmeyer
SMOTE: synthetic minority over-sampling technique
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 321 - 357 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,556
RANK
411,549
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies