Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pour un consciencisme de la recherche comptable sur le continent africain : un état des lieux de la littérature internationale (For a Consciencism of Accounting Research on the African Continent: A Review of the International Literature)


Comptabilité Contrôle Audit, Tome30 (3), 2024

120 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Serge Agbodjo

University of Toulouse 3, Paul Sabatier University

Konan Seny Kan

Grenoble Ecole de Management - ESC Grenoble

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

La recherche comptable sur le continent africain est bien présente dans la littérature comptable internationale. Elle fait partie du champ de la recherche comptable dans les pays émergents, cependant, elle n’est pas dans les champs dominants de la recherche comptable, donc peu visible. Cette étude vise à la compréhension de l’état de la connaissance comptable sur le continent africain par le biais d’une analyse systématique de 326 articles de recherche publiés dans 38 revues internationales comptables sur une période de 43 années (1980-2022). Nos résultats montrent que les recherches comptables sur l’Afrique ne représentent que 1,2% des travaux publiés dans les revues académiques comptables internationales sur la période 1980-2022. Les résultats détaillent également les domaines comptables, approches méthodologiques et théoriques de la littérature comptable internationale dans les pays africains. Par ailleurs, nos résultats permettent de comprendre les formes de théorisation qui structurent la connaissance comptable africaine dans la littérature internationale, en l’occurrence, la théorisation de la connexion politique et historique d’une part, et la théorisation de la connexion épistémique, d’autre part. De plus, cette étude propose, à l’aune du consciencisme, une discussion des actions comptables positives, transformatrices, en résistance aux actions comptables négatives d’assujettissement. Enfin, un programme de recherche décliné en huit (8) voies de recherches futures qui traitent différents manquements de la littérature est proposé.




English

Accounting research on the African continent is well present in the international accounting literature. It is part of the field of accounting research on emerging countries, however, is not in the dominant streams of accounting research, and therefore not very visible. This study aims to understand the state of accounting knowledge on the African continent through a systematic analysis of 326 research articles published in 38 international accounting journals over a period of 43 years (1980-2022). Our results show that accounting research on Africa represents only 1.2% of studies published in international academic accounting journals over the period 1980-2022. The results also detail the accounting domains, methodological and theoretical approaches of the international accounting literature in African countries. Furthermore, our results provide an understanding of the forms of theorisation that structure African accounting knowledge in international literature, which are the theorisation of the political and historical connection on the one hand, and the theorisation of the epistemic connection, on the other hand. Additionally, this study proposes, in the light of consciencism, a discussion of positive, transformative, accounting actions, in resistance to negative accounting actions of subjugation. Finally, a research program made of eight (8) avenues for future research that address various gaps in the literature is proposed.




Note: Downloadable document is in French.

Suggested Citation:

Agbodjo, Serge and Seny Kan, Konan, Pour un consciencisme de la recherche comptable sur le continent africain : un état des lieux de la littérature internationale (For a Consciencism of Accounting Research on the African Continent: A Review of the International Literature)
(September 30, 2024). Comptabilité Contrôle Audit, Tome30 (3), 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5032794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5032794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
RANK
368,155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies