Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Increasing Liability of Digital Platforms in the Collection of EU Vat

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 3, Pages 107-113

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Fernando Matesanz

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author describes the cases in which digital platforms mediating and facilitating certain supplies of goods and services assume responsibility for collecting VAT instead of the underlying suppliers due to the so-called “deemed provisions”. The author also analyses many other different situations in which platforms are responsible for collecting VAT. It cannot be ruled out that these situations will increase in the future. Therefore, the author explains that we are faced with new ways of managing VAT.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/qepx18

Keywords: VAT, collection of tax, platform economy, intermediary, tax liability, ViDA Proposal, one-stop shop, e-commerce

Suggested Citation:

Matesanz, Fernando, The Increasing Liability of Digital Platforms in the Collection of EU Vat. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 3, Pages 107-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/qepx18
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies