Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preliminary Ruling in ECJ Case Promo 54: Did the Referring Court Ask the Right Question?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 15-18

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Marie Lamensch

Independent

Abstract

In April 2022, the Belgian Cassation Court raised a preliminary question to the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ) concerning the application of the VAT exemption foreseen under article 135(1)(j) of the VAT Directive (exemption concerning the supply of immovable property) in the specific case of renovated buildings. At first consideration, the question raised may seem technical and mostly relevant to the Belgian practice. In this article, however, the author suggests it would be a good occasion for the ECJ to define the margin of manoeuvre for Member States when it comes to taxing the supply of renovated buildings.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2g6yn20

Keywords: VAT exemption, VAT Directive, immovable property, case law, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Lamensch, Marie, Preliminary Ruling in ECJ Case Promo 54: Did the Referring Court Ask the Right Question?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 15-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2g6yn20
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
137
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies