Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Closing the Geelen Loophole and Creating New Issues

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 155-164

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Madeleine Merkx

Independent

Abstract

With its judgment in the Geelen case, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) created a potential loophole for suppliers of online entertainment, etc., services to offer services to EU consumers without EU VAT. This loophole is being closed as of 1 January 2025 by amendments to the place-of-supply rules. At the same time it will be possible for Member States to apply reduced VAT rates to the online equivalent of services like exhibitions, cultural events and physical exercise classes. Though the new rules are in the author’s view to be welcomed, they also create new issues and questions, which are addressed in this article.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/esa46s

Keywords: VAT, place of supply (VAT), electronic services, reduced rate, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Merkx, Madeleine, Closing the Geelen Loophole and Creating New Issues. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 155-164, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/esa46s
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies