Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Alignment with the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities: First Evidence from Financial Accounting Data

31 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Alexander Cheema-Fox

State Street Associates

Megan Czasonis

State Street Corporate

Piyush Kontu

State Street Global Markets - State Street Associates

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: July 05, 2023

Abstract

We perform the first analysis of corporate disclosures of the percentage of revenues, capital and operating expenditures aligned with the EU's taxonomy on sustainable activities. Overwhelmingly, disclosed activities relate to climate change mitigation rather than adaptation. We document low absolute levels of alignment with the taxonomy and significant variation across competing companies. Companies with higher alignment exhibit little difference in past sales growth, current profitability margins, or valuation ratios compared to their peers. Moreover, our data suggests that the existing information set available, through business segment disclosures, environmental ratings, and carbon emissions data, is insufficient to assess alignment with the taxonomy. For the first time in history, investors can analyze a company's alignment with climate change mitigation activities using standardized and audited financial accounting data.

Keywords: Climate Investments, Corporate Disclosure, Sustainability, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Cheema-Fox, Alexander and Czasonis, Megan and Kontu, Piyush and Serafeim, George, Corporate Alignment with the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities: First Evidence from Financial Accounting Data (July 05, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5034893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
P Canfora , M Dri , O Polidori , C Solzbacher , Arranz Padilla , M
Substantial contribution to climate change mitigation -a framework to define technical screening criteria for the EU taxonomy
EUR , volume 30550 Posted: 2021
D Christensen , G Serafeim , A Sikochi
Why Is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of the Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings
The Accounting Review Posted: 2022
M Dumrose , S Rink , J Eckert
Disaggregating confusion? The EU Taxonomy and its relation to ESG rating
Financ. Res. Lett , volume 48 Posted: 2022
Andreas G F Hoepner , Fabiola I Schneider
EU Green Taxonomy Data -A First Vendor Survey
The Economists' Voice , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 242 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
541,838
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies