Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intra-Group Transactions from Vat Point of View: The Pricing

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 3, Pages 119-126

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Aniko Emese Boros

Independent

Abstract

Intra-group transactions performed by members of multinational enterprise groups can have in several particular implications in the field of taxation. In this article, the author analyses the impact of the potential VAT consequences of pricing in intra-group transactions, which covers the VAT treatment of transfer pricing adjustments and the application of open market value.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1wb3mxe

Keywords: VAT Directive, transfer pricing, MNE

Suggested Citation:

Boros, Aniko Emese, Intra-Group Transactions from Vat Point of View: The Pricing. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 3, Pages 119-126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1wb3mxe
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies