Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the “Dual Vat” Proposed by the Brazilian Indirect Tax Reform a Real Vat?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 252-261

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Fernanda Santos Moura

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author compares the essential concepts of the “dual VAT” system proposed by the Brazilian government (via Constitutional Amendment Proposal PEC 110/2019) with the main concepts of the European VAT Directive. The analysis aims to identify whether Brazil is moving toward a real VAT system or whether, due to its dual VAT’s unique features, Brazil will still be deviating from the VAT international practice, even after its long-awaited indirect tax reform. The author concludes that the Brazilian dual VAT may successfully align that country with the VAT international practice, but points out that this is a preliminary conclusion because the supplementary law that is yet to come has a decisive role in the proposed Brazilian indirect tax reform.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28ghstz

Keywords: VAT, indirect tax, tax reform, constitutional law, VAT Directive, neutrality principle, destination principle, federal tax, state tax

Suggested Citation:

Moura, Fernanda Santos, Is the “Dual Vat” Proposed by the Brazilian Indirect Tax Reform a Real Vat?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 252-261, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28ghstz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies