Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fluvius Antwerpen: Supplies Hidden in a Theft?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 171-174

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Krzysztof Lasiński-Sulecki

Independent

Abstract

In its judgment of 27 April 2023 in Fluvius Antwerpen v. MX (Case C-677/21), the ECJ decided that the supply of electricity by a distribution network operator, even if involuntary and the result of unlawful conduct on the part of a third party, constitutes a supply of goods for consideration entailing the transfer of the right to dispose of tangible property. In this article, the author analyses the judgment as well as the opinion of AG Kokott of 12 January 2023 – in their parts regarding the understanding of the supply of goods – and reaches the conclusion that this judgment contradicts previous case law, or must be understood very narrowly taking into account peculiar legal background of the case in Belgian domestic rules on energy distribution.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3s5eyz7

Keywords: VAT, ECJ case law, tangible property, supply (VAT), energy industry

Suggested Citation:

Lasiński-Sulecki, Krzysztof, Fluvius Antwerpen: Supplies Hidden in a Theft?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 171-174, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3s5eyz7
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies