Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vat and the Cross-Border Digital Economy in Africa: An Issue of Non-Compliance or Design?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 237-241

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Alfred Habaasa

Independent

Abstract

Collecting VAT on cross-border e-commerce transactions has become a priority for states around the globe, including on the African continent. Following the international (OECD) guidelines, most countries require non-resident businesses to register in the state of consumption and remit the VAT on their B2C e-commerce supplies. While this may work in certain countries where the value of e-commerce is high, it is not the case in most African countries, where there is no real incentive for businesses to register and no real risk of sanctions in case of non-compliance. In this article, the author argues that mandatory registration of foreign businesses is hardly enforceable in developing economies, and that another approach might be needed for these countries.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3nrdb56

Keywords: VAT, e-commerce, digital economy, cross-border transaction, platform economy, collection of tax, tax compliance, enforcement, developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Habaasa, Alfred, Vat and the Cross-Border Digital Economy in Africa: An Issue of Non-Compliance or Design?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 237-241, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3nrdb56
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies