Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Vat Treatment of Nfts in the European Union

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 61-74

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Laura Alarcón Díaz

Independent

Abstract

This article discusses the VAT treatment of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) in the European Union. These tokens have been on the market for some time, but their trade volume has grown exponentially recently. Tax authorities have developed some interest in them as a potential new source of revenue, paying attention to their ecosystem and the parties involved. Some tax authorities have already taken a position, while others have remained silent, waiting for market developments. There are still questions to be answered on the VAT implications of NFT supplies, but initial standpoints can be taken. The European Union has already begun to work towards a common position on the VAT treatment of NFT supplies. The difficulty in determining that treatment lies in the fact that the nature of NFTs has not been defined in a harmonized way. This article intends to briefly analyse each of the VAT components contributing to this definition.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/249rzww

Keywords: VAT, NFT, tax authorities, digital economy, blockchain, cryptocurrency

Suggested Citation:

Alarcón Díaz, Laura, The Vat Treatment of Nfts in the European Union. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 61-74, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/249rzww
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies