Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bulgaria Finally Introduced a Vat Bad-Debt Relief Mechanism: Was it Worth the Wait?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 55-59

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Martin Dlagnekov

Independent

Abstract

Suppliers operating on the Bulgarian market may now claim VAT bad-debt relief based on procedures laid down in the domestic legislation. This is good news. A deep dive into the rules shows, however, quite a lot of “ifs” and “buts” – with some being, in the author’s view, outright incompatible with EU law. Businesses should give careful consideration to the rules’ intricacies and, where necessary, to available legal remedies, so as to be well placed to make proper use of this output VAT adjustment mechanism.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3pm43yz

Keywords: VAT, domestic tax law, bad debt, anti-avoidance, ECJ case law, EU law

Suggested Citation:

Dlagnekov, Martin, Bulgaria Finally Introduced a Vat Bad-Debt Relief Mechanism: Was it Worth the Wait?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 55-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3pm43yz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies