Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Confluence of Tax Law, Administrative Law and Public Policy

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 175-179

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Jamoy A. B. Morrison

Independent

Abstract

In this article the author addresses the confluence of tax law and administrative law with respect to the duty to provide reasons. He further delves into the intricacies of the general sales tax (GST) regime in Belize and the public policy considerations which undergird it. The case of reference is UC Trading Company (2021). In the author’s view, this case is of great import to Caribbean businesses and tax administrators alike as it clarifies such fundamental legal principles as the duty to give reasons and the right to claim input GST credits. The case will certainly influence future interactions between businesses in Belize and the GST Department, particularly in the realm of tax assessment.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/31j7qms

Keywords: tax law, administrative law, GST, case law

Suggested Citation:

Morrison, Jamoy A. B., The Confluence of Tax Law, Administrative Law and Public Policy. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 175-179, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/31j7qms
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
90
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies