Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ecj's Jurisprudence Versus the Vat Committee's Guideline on the “Economic” Exemption for Transportation Services to Export Goods: Time for Repair to Protect EU Business’ Global Competitiveness

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 267-285

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ine Lejeune

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author analyses the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the “economic” exemption for transportation services to export goods and why all legs of the transportation to export goods are exempt of VAT. She then reviews the Guideline of the VAT Committee, which surprisingly restricts the “economic” exemption to the transporter holding an export declaration. Different scenarios are discussed to illustrate the impact on the transportation sector and its customers and on the competitiveness of EU business in global trade, highlighting the need to remedy the guidance.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/29h2c5h

Keywords: VAT, ECJ case law, VAT exemption, services, export

Suggested Citation:

Lejeune, Ine, The Ecj's Jurisprudence Versus the Vat Committee's Guideline on the “Economic” Exemption for Transportation Services to Export Goods: Time for Repair to Protect EU Business’ Global Competitiveness. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 267-285, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/29h2c5h
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies