Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Banking Officials' Investing Avenues in the Delhi-NCR

Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024)

11 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024

Pranav Sharma

Manav Rachna University

Dr. Shweta Goel

Manav Rachna University

Date Written: November 27, 2024

Abstract

Investments stimulate the capital market. In a developing economy such as India's, there must be an increasing flow of capital to commercial enterprises. Over the time, there has been a boost in the participation of regular investors in the equities markets. Investment is the transfer of capital for the purpose of achieving profitable goals. Without investment, an economy cannot have high consumption levels without becoming lopsided. States with greater investment commitments tend to be more progressive. Analyzing the investment patterns of banking personnel in Delhi-NCR is the aim of the current study. Examining questionnaires that were distributed around Delhi-NCR allowed for the collection of the data. The Chi-Square Test was used to examine the data using SPSS software to compare various attributes. Correlation is used to find the relationship between different variables. When investing, everyone should be wellprepared financially. People should understand all their investing options before making any financial decisions. Because of the complexity of today's financial markets, every investor has unique demands that vary based on their risk tolerance and financial goals. Ultimately, though, every investor wants to maximize returns while shielding their investment. Therefore, having a solid financial education is necessary for people to make wise financial decisions.

Keywords: Capital Market, Commercial Enterprises, Investment Patterns, Financial Goals.

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Pranav and Goel, Dr. Shweta, An Analysis of Banking Officials' Investing Avenues in the Delhi-NCR (November 27, 2024). Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5035967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5035967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
RANK
848,823
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies