Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction of Bali Digital Nomad Visa and Related Tax Considerations

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ichwan Sukardi

Independent

Abstract

One of the many trends that emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, enabled by the virtual era we live in, was the ability for employees to “work from home” or even “work from anywhere”. Recognizing its value, countries in the South-east Asia region began introducing Digital Nomad Visas in 2022, allowing foreign individuals to stay and work in the country without a formal local employer. One of the first to launch in the region was Indonesia’s Work From Bali. This article takes a look at this new offering and examines the arising tax implications.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2x6tc52

Keywords: working abroad, COVID-19 pandemic, home office, domestic tax law, foreign company

Suggested Citation:

Sukardi, Ichwan, Introduction of Bali Digital Nomad Visa and Related Tax Considerations. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2x6tc52
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies