Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Amendment Transfer Pricing Adjustment Provision Announcement 9 December 2021

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 207-211

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Kristiina Pankakoski

Independent

Abstract

The Finnish parliament approved an amendment to the legislation on transfer pricing adjustment on 9 December 2022. The legislative change entered into force on 1 January 2022. The amendment to the legislation is proposed to clarify the regulation concerning the national transfer pricing adjustment provisions. The amendment to legislation concerning the new subsections 2 and 3 of section 31 of the Act on Assessment Procedure (AAP) allows the tax administration to adjust a related-party transaction according to its factual substance and to disregard the transaction in exceptional circumstances. The legislative change thus clarifies the scope of the regulation. It has also broadened the scope of the national arm’s length principle contained in section 31(1) of the AAP. The change in legislation thus has an actual impact on the legal state compared with the previous decision-making practice of the Supreme Administrative Court from 2014 to 2021.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/36yp33t

Keywords: transfer pricing adjustment, domestic tax law, arm's length principle, economic substance, case law

Suggested Citation:

Pankakoski, Kristiina, Amendment Transfer Pricing Adjustment Provision Announcement 9 December 2021. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 207-211, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/36yp33t
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies