Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decentralization, Performance Measurement, and CEO Incentives

48 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024

Stephan Kramer

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Michal Matejka

Arizona State University

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Although it is well understood that decentralization of decision rights to division managers is an important determinant of their incentives, the implications for CEO incentive design remain unclear. We predict that decentralization reduces the use of nonfinancial performance measures in CEO bonus plans and increases the relative emphasis on financial measures of aggregate firm performance. We also predict that a less comprehensive measurement of CEO performance and a narrower focus on financial measures increase noise in annual performance evaluations and therefore weaken CEO incentives implied by annual compensation grants in decentralized firms. In our empirical analysis, we use a GPT to collect data on decentralization in a large crosssection of firms and find evidence consistent with our predictions. In particular, we find that CEO annual bonuses in decentralized firms are more sensitive to earnings and less likely to include nonfinancial measures than in centralized firms. At the same time, decentralization is negatively associated with CEO incentives as measured by the sensitivity of total annual compensation to stock returns.

Keywords: Delegation, CEO compensation, incentives, performance measures M12, ChatGPT, GPT, LLM

Suggested Citation:

Kramer, Stephan and Matejka, Michal, Decentralization, Performance Measurement, and CEO Incentives (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5037818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
D Acemoglu , P Aghion , C Lelarge , J Van Reenen , And F Zilibotti
Technology, information, and the decentralization of the firm
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , p. 1759 - 1799 Posted: 2007
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
D S Bedford , R F Speklé
Construct validity in survey-based management accounting and control research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 23 - 58 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
668
RANK
464,511
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies