Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extending the Tax Net to the Gig Economy

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Andrew M. C. Smith

Independent

Abstract

The emergence of the “gig”or “sharing” economy through the rise of large-scale digital platforms has had a profound effect on certain industries worldwide, especially in the taxi/limousine and tourist accommodation sectors, and has also posed major challenges for tax legislators and administrators. These issues led the New Zealand government to release a discussion document in March 2022 containing proposals to change how the sharing economy is taxed in New Zealand, some of which built on the recommendations of the OECD for rules for reporting income derived through online platform operators by sellers in the sharing and gig economies. This article analyses the discussion document along with the Taxation (Annual Rates for 2022-23, Platform Economy, and Remedial Matters) Act 2023 which was passed in March 2023 to bring into effect changes to the goods and services tax that will apply to the sharing and gig economies in New Zealand.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/24p7nm3

Keywords: platform economy, sharing economy, exchange of information, GST, private use, compliance burden

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Andrew M. C., Extending the Tax Net to the Gig Economy. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/24p7nm3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies