Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Circumventing the Business Profits Article for Section 4a Income: A Construction that Clashes with the Convention

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Michael Fork

Independent

Abstract

This journal article expounds on what should be the true relationship between section 4A income and the business profits article which is contained in the OECD Model. It challenges the commonly held assumptions on the subject, sets out a positive case on why section 4A income is not precluded from falling within the scope of the business profits article, and critically analyses the local case law in this area. In doing so, it takes the opportunity to discuss several general principles concerning tax treaty interpretation. Close references would be made to the OECD Commentary and the relevant provisions in the domestic income tax legislation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3e7c0xx

Keywords: business profits, non-resident, OECD Model, treaty interpretation, liability provisions, domestic tax law, case law

Suggested Citation:

Fork, Michael, Circumventing the Business Profits Article for Section 4a Income: A Construction that Clashes with the Convention. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3e7c0xx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies