Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supreme Court Resolves Question on Treatment of Concealed Production or Sales

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 3

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Bilal Hassan

Independent

Abstract

Pakistan’s Income Tax Ordinance 2001 empowers the tax authorities to make amendments or reamendments to assessments of income tax, including in situations where income has escaped assessment due to concealment or underreporting. The income tax law also contains numerous measures to counter tax avoidance and evasion. While these various separate provisions should be complementary, in this article, the author analyses an important issue that arose between taxpayers and tax authorities regarding the interpretation and application of two of these provisions and discusses the decisions of the appellate authorities in resolving the matter.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/c63h1e

Keywords: income tax law, tax avoidance, tax evasion, assessment, appeal, case law

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Bilal, Supreme Court Resolves Question on Treatment of Concealed Production or Sales. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/c63h1e
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies