Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Being Capitalized: The Right Debt-to-Equity Level for Intercompany Financing in Luxembourg

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 67-71

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paweł Wróblewski

Independent

M. Rasch

Independent

Abstract

The recent update of the OECD Guidelines provides long-awaited guidance as to how to apply the arm’s length principle in relation to financial transactions. An important element of this guidance covers the debt-and-equity balance from a transfer pricing perspective. From a Luxembourg point of view, absent any official regulations covering thin capitalization and in line with the OECD Guidelines, it is expected that the market practice of 85:15 will no longer be applicable, unless it can be supported by a proper transfer pricing analysis. Non-supported debt-to-equity ratios may lead to a shift in the burden of proof.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/50qven

Keywords: transfer pricing, intercompany financing, arm's length principle, OECD Model, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, debt capital, equity capital, thin capitalization

Suggested Citation:

Wróblewski, Paweł and Rasch, M., The Importance of Being Capitalized: The Right Debt-to-Equity Level for Intercompany Financing in Luxembourg. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 67-71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/50qven
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies