Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Arm's Length Principle and Equity Dispositions: The Case of Thick Capitalization – Part 2

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 225-236

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Andreas Bullen

Independent

M. Goller

Independent

Abstract

The arm's length principle has existed for more than 100 years, and a large number of equity dispositions have been undertaken for even longer. Still, neither the OECD nor the Norwegian legislator has ever suggested that the arm's length principle can be applied to equity dispositions. Is this a coincidence or are there valid reasons for not applying the arm's length principle to equity dispositions? In this article, the authors examine this issue from the perspective of the arm's length provision contained in the OECD Model and Norwegian domestic law, aimed at the particular case of thick (equity) capitalization. Part 1 of this article discussed the applicability of the Norwegian arm’s length provision to equity contributions. The issues in this part of the article are whether the tax treaty provisions based on article 9 of the OECD Model apply to equity contributions and whether it is commercially irrational for a parent company to finance a subsidiary with equity rather than debt.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3cf0637

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, equity capital, OECD Model, domestic tax law, liability provisions

Suggested Citation:

Bullen, Andreas and Goller, M., The Arm's Length Principle and Equity Dispositions: The Case of Thick Capitalization – Part 2. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 225-236, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3cf0637
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
94
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies