Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Projecting Financial Statements with Chained Machine Learning

65 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Paul Geertsema

Vlerick Business School

Helen Lu

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven, Department Accounting, Finance and Insurance

Guang Ma

Rutgers Business School at Newark and New Brunswick

Date Written: October 23, 2023

Abstract

We develop a chained-learning framework to project the complete set of financial statements, predicting items sequentially in a human-informed order that embeds the interconnections among items and reflects the underlying logic of accounting. Implemented with Gradient Boosting Machines on a large U.S. sample, the chained model reduces out-of-sample forecast errors by 32% compared to a parallel model that predicts each line item independently. A variable importance analysis shows that chained inputs contribute 37% of predictive power, indicating the informational gain from passing predictions along the chain outweighs error propagation. The net benefits of chaining are robust across different time periods, firm types, and forecast horizons, and are largest for firms with volatile fundamentals and items late in the chain. Finally, we demonstrate the framework’s utility by showing that deviations of reported numbers from our model predictions provide incremental information for detecting financial irregularities beyond established predictors, especially for little-r restatements.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, machine learning, chained learning, financial statement projection, restatement

Suggested Citation:

Geertsema, Paul G. and Lu, Helen and Ma, Guang,
Projecting Financial Statements with Chained Machine Learning
(October 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5039433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5039433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
196,969
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies