Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Infrastructure of a Nation Michael D'Ascenzo AO Chartered Accountants (Australia and New Zealand) 2024 Leadership in Government Awards Canberra National Portrait Gallery, Wednesday

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

5 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2025

Michael D'Ascenzo

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Taxation and Business Law

Date Written: November 13, 2024

Abstract

The thesis of the speech is that the application of professional standards in the public sector allows public servants to make a worthwhile difference in benefiting the nation.

Suggested Citation:

D'Ascenzo, Michael, The Infrastructure of a Nation Michael D'Ascenzo AO Chartered Accountants (Australia and New Zealand) 2024 Leadership in Government Awards Canberra National Portrait Gallery, Wednesday (November 13, 2024). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5040067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5040067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies