Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and Analyst Productivity

62 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2025

Devin M. Shanthikumar

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2024

Abstract

We provide evidence on the impact of AI on sell-side analysts' productivity, focusing on earnings forecasts. Theory suggests that AI may improve productivity through automation and/or task complementarity. However, potential frictions in the effective use of AI could lead to no productivity gains or even adverse effects. Our results show that AI investments by investment banks lead to an increase in production quantity, as measured by a higher frequency of earning forecasts for covered firms, and an improvement in production quality, as measured by more accurate earnings forecasts. Cross-sectional analyses show that the effect of AI investments is stronger when the forecasting task is more complex, due to either fundamental firm uncertainty or a poor firm information environment. These results suggest that the positive effect of AI on analyst productivity is primarily driven by task complementarity-allowing analysts to focus their efforts on tasks that benefit most from their human skills-rather than by pure automation. We additionally show that AI investment levels the playing field among analysts, leads to investment banks expanding coverage to firms that were not previously covered, and increases analysts' strategic forecasting behaviors. Finally, we observe similar effects on productivity with the introduction of ChatGPT, an alternative proxy for the increased use of AI by analysts.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, AI, machine learning, sell-side analysts, earnings forecasts, productivity, analyst coverage

Suggested Citation:

Shanthikumar, Devin M. and Yoo, Il Sun, Artificial Intelligence and Analyst Productivity (November 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5040339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5040339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2024
D Acemoglu
The simple macroeconomics of AI
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2024
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence, automation, and work. The economics of artificial intelligence: An agenda , p. 197 - 236 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
705
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,428
RANK
83,836
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies