Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Money and Wallet: A Conceptual Framework

International Journal of Research & Review | Vol.6; Issue: 9; September 2019

4 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2025

Himanshu Mathur

Jayoti Vidyapeeth Women’s University

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

Demonetarization was one of the one of the major reason for growing digital money into market. On 8 Nov. 2018, government adopt demonetarization policy and banned 500 and 1000Rs note into the market. Government was emphasizing on using the digital wallet or digital money. The government want the transparency in all economical transaction. On that time PAYTM, BHIM, RUPAY and other digital wallet were capturing market on large scale. This paper is an attempt to give introduction of digital money and various types of digital wallets available in market.

Suggested Citation:

Mathur, Himanshu, Digital Money and Wallet: A Conceptual Framework (September 10, 2019). International Journal of Research & Review | Vol.6; Issue: 9; September 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5040721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5040721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies