Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and Institutional Accounting

21 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2025

Bahareh Erfanian Olfati

Independent

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

This research demonstrates how the application of international financial reporting standards, in the least preparedness situation, can lead to a discrepancy between the accounting and auditing practices of companies and the change in acceptable accounting practices. Measures ignored by corporate accounting provide a more comprehensive view of how to respond to IFRS, especially in areas where IFRS is approved for use. Overall, past research has shown that IFRS is related to power holders in various fields, which can be exploited in particular in the face of language barriers, ambiguity in translation, interference with standard approval, the leading role of governments and professional organizations. Despite these comments, research into the role of corporate accountants in changing the entity remains silent, and it is unclear how change can affect their practices, especially as they interact with stronger auditors, but in the case of Iran, the reality is that its accounting standards are more than 90% and auditing standards are completely similar to international standards. The main challenge in applying IFRS is the issue of fair value, not the influence of power.

Note: Downloadable document is in Persian.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Corporate Accounting, Institutional Work, استانداردهای گزارشگری مالی بینالمللی, حسابداری شرکت, کار نهادی

Suggested Citation:

Erfanian Olfati, Bahareh, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and Institutional Accounting (October 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5041171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5041171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
341
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies