Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market for and Licensing of Public Accountants: A Review of the AICPA's Pipeline Report

33 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2024 Last revised: 15 Jun 2025

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

Over the past decade, there has been a substantial decline in the number of accounting majors and newly-minted CPAs. In response, the governing Council of the AICPA passed a resolution to establish the National Pipeline Advisory Group (NPAG), with a mission to "increase the number of people who choose a career in accounting." We evaluate the recommendations and analysis in the NPAG's final report, with a focus on understanding the demand and supply factors driving compensation, college major choice, and occupation choice. Although we share many of the NPAG's concerns and observations, we question its characterization of declining entrants to the profession as exclusively a supply phenomenon and conclude that its recommendations would have only marginal effects on supply. We propose for discussion four alternatives for reforming entry to public accounting, each with the goal of reducing the cost of entry without compromising quality and, in doing so, maximizing economic welfare.


Keywords: accounting, auditing, occupational licensing, labor markets, regulation, CPAs

JEL Classification: J24, J44, M40, M41, M42, K2, L51

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray and Sutherland, Andrew, The Market for and Licensing of Public Accountants: A Review of the AICPA's Pipeline Report (December 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5042790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5042790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
150,243
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies