Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation into How Generative AI Can Improve Auditors' Decisions

41 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Andrew K. Jones

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

Auditors often fail to speak up about audit issues, threatening financial reporting quality. Remote work conditions exacerbate this effect. We theorize that a root cause is auditors' insufficient understanding of the implications of acquired audit evidence. We posit that generative AI can address this issue by improving auditors' understanding of acquired audit evidence. In an experiment with professional auditors, we predict and find that context-specific information from generative AI ("GenAI information") increases auditors' likelihood of speaking up when audit issues are present, particularly when auditors are working remotely. In an alternative scenario with no issues requiring auditors to speak up, we find that auditors are less likely to speak up when GenAI information is present. Collectively, the evidence supports our theory about an insufficient understanding as a root cause, demonstrates the ability of generative AI to enhance audit effectiveness and efficiency, and improves our understanding of how and why GenAI information is useful to auditors.

Keywords: auditing, experiment, generative AI, remote work, auditor voice decisions, auditor judgment, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Jones, Andrew and Kadous, Kathryn, An Investigation into How Generative AI Can Improve Auditors' Decisions (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5042792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5042792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
V Arnold , N Clark , P A Collier , S A Leech , S G Sutton
Explanation provision and use in an intelligent decision aid
Intelligent Systems in Accounting , volume 12 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2004
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , And R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
T Bauer , K A Humphreys , K T Trotman
Group Judgment and Decision Making in Auditing: Research in the Time of COVID-19 and Beyond
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 41 , p. 3 - 23 Posted: 2022
G B Bennett , R C Hatfield
The Effect of the Social Mismatch between Staff Auditors and Client Management on the Collection of Audit Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,504
RANK
129,029
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies