Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peering Through the Accounting Noise: The Role of Comparability in Corporate Debt Choices

47 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024

Yiwei Li

University of Essex, EBS

Zhe Shen

Xiamen University

Wei Song

University of Nottingham

Zhiliang Zhu

Xiamen University

Abstract

This study examines the impact of financial statement comparability on firms' choice between public debt and bank debt. Building on the comparability measures developed by De Franco et al. (2011), we find that greater comparability is positively associated with the use of public debt and negatively associated with the use of bank debt. This relationship is more pronounced for firms with higher information asymmetry, more severe agency problems, and weaker corporate governance. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of comparability in enhancing the participation of public debt holders and contribute to recent work on the determinants of corporate debt choices.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability, Information quality, Agency costs, Public debt, Bank debt

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yiwei and Shen, Zhe and Song, Wei and Zhu, Zhiliang, Peering Through the Accounting Noise: The Role of Comparability in Corporate Debt Choices. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5042847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5042847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
F Allen , A Babus , E Carletti
Asset commonality, debt maturity and systemic risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , issue 3 , p. 519 - 534 Posted: 2012
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
RANK
609,870
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies