Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate use of AI and Subsequent Product Market Performance

50 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025 Last revised: 11 Jul 2025

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Jeff J. Wang

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Ran Zhao

San Diego State University

Date Written: August 31, 2024

Abstract

There is limited academic evidence on the use of AI by U.S. companies and its effects. We identify a firm's use of artificial intelligence (AI) in product and service development by using keywords to select AI related sentences in the annual financial report and then training BERT-a popular deep learning model-to classify each sentence into about using AI in product and service development ("AI adoption") vs. other AI related disclosure. We observe a steady increase in AI adoption since 2010 and a faster-paced increase since 2018. AI adoption is associated with higher sales growth in the subsequent year and with higher operating efficiency and profitability in the subsequent two years. In addition, the success of AI adoption appears to depend on the intensity of AI use. We do not observe improved product market performance after AI adoption for firms that do not have workers with AI skills in their own workforce. Our study contributes to the accounting, finance, and economics literatures by proposing a new measure of AI adoption and providing new insights into the effects of AI on corporations.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, AI, machine learning, product market, deep learning, textual analysis

Declaration of Interest

The authors have no financial or non-financial interests that are directly or indirectly related to this submission.

Funder Statement

There is no outside funding affiliated with this submission.

Suggested Citation:

Tucker, Jennifer and Wang, Jeff J. and Zhao, Ran, Corporate use of AI and Subsequent Product Market Performance (August 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5044024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5044024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
183,491
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies