Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing for Talent: Understanding the Recruiting Challenges and Strategies of Small Accounting Firms

57 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Date Written: October 13, 2025

Abstract

Recruiting talent is a major issue for the accounting profession and is especially salient for small firms with limited resources and brand recognition. In this study, we examine the challenges small accounting firms face when recruiting from universities and the strategies they use to overcome them. Drawing on interviews with 34 stakeholders (primarily recruiting specialists and human resource managers), we develop a process model of small firm recruiting and present evidence related to each phase: (1) targeting certain universities and students, (2) engaging in university recruiting activities, (3) extending offers, and (4) aiming to evaluate recruiting outcomes. Guided by theory, our findings reveal that small accounting firms must develop organizational familiarity and image with students while navigating a three-pronged tension involving fatalism, imitation, and differentiation. We conclude with a call to reconsider the “biggest is best” assumptions that dominate mainstream accounting research and provide suggestions for future research. 

Keywords: small accounting firms, recruiting, field study, organizational familiarity, organizational image, fatalism, imitation, differentiation

Ethics Approval

We sought IRB approval from our institutions prior to engaging in field work.

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M42, M51

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Hayne, Christie and Stein, Sarah E., Competing for Talent: Understanding the Recruiting Challenges and Strategies of Small Accounting Firms (October 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5045513 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5045513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,128
RANK
318,538
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies