Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Society and Urban Space: Revisiting the Theory of Milton Santos

30 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2024

Thauan Felipe Medeiros Carvalho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fernanda Sauerbronn

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ)

Abstract

This essay explores the intersection of accounting and geography by examining traditional accounting practices through Milton Santos' Two Circuits Theory. It highlights how conventional accounting prioritizes the needs of the upper circuit, characterized by technological modernization and capital accumulation while overlooking the informal, labor-intensive lower circuit that sustains marginalized communities. The study argues that accounting as a social practice perpetuates power structures favoring the hegemonic elite, reinforcing socio-economic disparities in urban spaces. By critically analyzing how accounting reports financial information and influences urban space, the essay underscores the need for inclusive accounting practices that acknowledge the economic realities of the lower circuit. Integrating Santos' geographical insights with accounting can provide a framework to rethink economic representation and challenge the dominance of financial capitalism models that exclude the lower circuit. This new approach to accounting would promote more equitable urban development and recognize the essential contributions of the lower circuit to the socio-economic fabric of cities.

Keywords: Milton Santos, critical accounting, Urban Economy, Two Circuits Theory

Suggested Citation:

Carvalho, Thauan Felipe Medeiros and Sauerbronn, Fernanda, Accounting, Society and Urban Space: Revisiting the Theory of Milton Santos. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies