Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mishaps On Impairment Of Goodwill -Case Study Of Press Corporation Plc On The Acquisition Of Peoples Trading Centre Limited

Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

Impairment of goodwill is one of the least activities which a parent company wishes to undertake as it is directly linked to stewardship principle either because the consideration on acquisition was too high or entrepreneurial challenges. This study reviewed MWK0.427 billion full impairment of goodwill of PTC in the Press Corporation Plc Consolidated Financial Statements in 2020. The results thereof indicate undue delay in recognising full goodwill impairment loss on PTC when all the terminal signs were visible as early as 2014. Declining performance trends in revenue, profit and net assets (shareholders' equity) did not have a corresponding impact on the carrying amount of PTC. It is recommended that group auditors must take vigilant approach in reviewing annual goodwill impairment test and management of parent companies must use corporate failure models such as Z-Score and Argenti Model to evaluate the relevance of goodwill in specific subsidiaries as a matter of compliance with prudence concept so as to avoid overstating the carrying amount of the subsidiaries.

Keywords: Transaction Review Mishaps, Impairment, Goodwill, PTC, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Mishaps On Impairment Of Goodwill -Case Study Of Press Corporation Plc On The Acquisition Of Peoples Trading Centre Limited (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050607
 Not Available for Download
3 References
Bdo
Impairment of Goodwill, Tangible and Intangible Assets", BDO's US GAAP and IFRS Comparison Posted: 2020
Andrei Filip , Gerald J Lobo , Luc Paugam
Managerial discretion to delay the recognition of goodwill impairment: The role of enforcement
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 48 , issue 1-2 Posted: 2021
Q Huang , M Xiong
Managerial ability and goodwill impairment: evidence from China
Better information about business combinations -Goodwill and Impairment: Project update Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies